ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
SCPA Marathon
October 18, 2017
$100, 000 Goal!
About the St. Croix Prep Marathon
Marathon Day is not only a great day filled with outdoor activity and community building, we also use this event to close the funding gap between our school and other Stillwater public schools.  St. Croix Prep does not receive any of the local tax levy that the local district receives.  This “gap” amounts to over $1.5 million per year.  For the sake of our students we must work together to close this funding gap.
This year’s Marathon goal is $100,000.  Over the past six years, this event has raised over $525,000 for academics at St. Croix Prep.  Purchases made possible through funds raised include: mobile computer labs, textbooks, classroom literature, built-in cabinets for the Lower School, SMART Boards, student scholarships and field trips.  Funds raised this year will go towards the purchase of 200 new Chromebooks, Middle School science textbooks and the remaining built-in cabinets for SCPA classrooms.
The St. Croix Prep Marathon is the only event that includes every student and staff member.  We set a goal for each student to raise $65, and offer a Marathon T-shirt as a thank you for this generous contribution.  Students raising above the $65 donation are eligible for additional prizes.  Students and staff will raise funds through the day of the race, October 18.  As a result of our exciting new athletic facilities development project, the Marathon will be held off-site at the Washington County Fairgrounds.  Students will participate in an opening ceremony, run a portion of the Marathon, enjoy a picnic lunch, plays some outdoor and indoor games and conclude with closing ceremonies.
We invite you to support the students of St. Croix Prep today!  To donate, enter the 
Event Website
  – To donate to a specific student, type their name or their team’s name in the search area.
Thank you very much for your support!
2017 Sponsors
Support SCPA
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Parent Group
LifeStyle Giving
Scrip Cards
Tommy Hilfiger
Clip-N-Save
Volunteer
HelpCounter Home Access Link
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources