SUN VALLEY
                About                
Overview
Our Mission
Meet Our Staff
Governance
                Calendar                
                Family Link                
Family Link
Enrollment
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Supply Lists
                Giving                
Arizona Tax Credit
Fry's Community Rewards Program
Donate Supplies
                Contact                
                Preschool                
“This is the most amazing school I have ever had the privilege to work for. I count myself lucky and blessed to teach our children and bond with our families, not to mention gain the amazing support and friendship of fellow staff at Sun Valley.”
- SVCS Staff Member
“My kids have been attending Sun Valley for a few years! Best decision I made transferring them to this school...”
- SVCS Parent
“Great school, great people that work there I am really happy to have my kid's there.”
- SVCS Parent
“Amazing school with amazing staff. I love how involved some of the teachers are with their students and above and beyond for the student's comfort so they can learn more. For example, Mrs. Yee is amazing in helping my daughter with not only her education but also and her self-worth and she does all that while enforcing strict rules and respect for others.”
- SVCS Parent
“This school is simply amazing! Love the teachers, administrators, and the students!”
- SVCS Parent
“The teachers and staff are friendly. My son loves this school and learns new things every day. ”
- SVCS Parent
“It is an awesome school...trust me I know.!☺☺”
- SVCS Parent
Family Link
School Hours
7:55-3:00	Monday
7:55-3:00	Tuesday
7:55-1:00	Wednesday
7:55-3:00	Thursday
7:55-3:00 	Friday
Drop off begins at 7:40 a.m. and students must be picked up by 3:15 pm M, T, TH, F and 1:15 p.m. Wed.
Kids Care before and after school program (6:00 a.m./6:00 p.m.)
Illness Policy
Students must be healthy and in attendance in order to learn effectively. Therefore, it is important to limit the spread of communicable disease and illness within the school community. Students with symptoms of certain communicable diseases, such as chicken pox (varicella), whooping cough (pertussis), “stomach flu” (norovirus and others), and the “flu” (influenza), need to remain home until they are no longer contagious or cleared by a licensed health care provider. However, in general, students may not remain at school with a fever greater than 100.4 degrees F, vomiting, or diarrhea. Students exhibiting these symptoms may not return to school until fever free without the use of fever reducing medications for 24 hours, free of vomiting for 24 hours, and free of diarrhea for 24 hours. Students who have three or more consecutive absences due to illness must provide documentation from a medical provider.
Any student with an open wound that is draining, discolored, or foul smelling discharge will be sent home with a recommendation for further evaluation. Open wounds must be covered during school hours. 
Lice (Pediculosis) is an infestation of tiny insects that live on the human body, typically on the scalp. They lay eggs, called nits, which are attached to the hair shaft, close to the scalp. Lice are spread by close contact (head to head, shared combs, shared hats, and shared linens, for example). Lice do not jump from person to person. Lice can be a difficult infestation to eradicate and may result in significant time lost from instruction if they cannot be controlled, thus it is important to limit the spread of this pest in the school community. Students with an infestation of active lice may not remain in school. Students may return when they have completed a full treatment and are free from active lice. Please see the health assistant for further information on treatment and home infestation control. 
Students who become ill during school hours may not leave without visiting the health office and having a parent sign them out at the front office desk.
Other Info
Student Ratio: One teacher for every 20 students
Executive Director:  Tanae Morrison, Ed.D.
Director Curriculum & Instruction:  Vanessa Bennett, Ed.D.
Director Student Services: Amy Austin, M.A.
School Tours: By appointment
Lunches: National School Lunch Program
Uniforms:
Tops-Polo style-solid Red, Navy, White with collars (no logos or insignia), or school spirit shirts (Fridays only)
Bottoms-Solid Navy and Khaki shorts, skorts or skirts (of modest length), or pants
Instructors: Highly Qualified/Certified Teachers
Non-Discrimnation Policy
Sun Valley Charter School does not discriminate against any individuals and offers programs without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, or disability. Admission to and participation in any program is not denied for lack of English skills. All students, regardless of race, color, disability or other factor will have equal access to attend Sun Valley Charter School.
Sun Valley Charter School
Tanae Morrison, Ed.D. - Executive Director
Tel (602) 692-4914
Fax (602) 276-6298
Our Mission
About
Family Link
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Employment
Español
 Like us on Facebook
© 2017 Sun Valley Charter School. Website by 
Integrated
.