SUN VALLEY
                About                
Overview
Our Mission
Meet Our Staff
Governance
                Calendar                
                Family Link                
Family Link
Enrollment
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Supply Lists
                Giving                
Arizona Tax Credit
Fry's Community Rewards Program
Donate Supplies
                Contact                
                Preschool                
“Amazing school with amazing staff. I love how involved some of the teachers are with their students and above and beyond for the student's comfort so they can learn more. For example, Mrs. Yee is amazing in helping my daughter with not only her education but also and her self-worth and she does all that while enforcing strict rules and respect for others.”
- SVCS Parent
“My kids have been attending Sun Valley for a few years! Best decision I made transferring them to this school...”
- SVCS Parent
“This is the most amazing school I have ever had the privilege to work for. I count myself lucky and blessed to teach our children and bond with our families, not to mention gain the amazing support and friendship of fellow staff at Sun Valley.”
- SVCS Staff Member
“It is an awesome school...trust me I know.!☺☺”
- SVCS Parent
“Great school, great people that work there I am really happy to have my kid's there.”
- SVCS Parent
“This school is simply amazing! Love the teachers, administrators, and the students!”
- SVCS Parent
“The teachers and staff are friendly. My son loves this school and learns new things every day. ”
- SVCS Parent
Overview
The educational program at Sun Valley focuses on the acquisition of skills through accelerated direct instruction from our dynamic teachers. Our commitment to quality education is further demonstrated by our small class sizes.
We are currently accepting registration for the 2016-2017 school year. Please call 602.692.4914 for more information.
Quick Facts
Sun Valley Charter School is a tuition-free public elementary school serving grades K-8 in the Laveen/South Mountain area. SVCS offers an accelerated curriculum as well as an emphasis on the development of leadership skills.
Highlights Include
Emphasis on reading, language arts, and mathematics
Direct instruction
Accelerated curriculum
Research-based curriculum
Learning Environment
Supports visual as well as auditory learners
Provides consistent reinforcement
Provides constant feedback
Fosters independent study skills
Provides a structured classroom
Fosters self-motivation
Minimizes interruptions to the classroom academic time
Support Services
Gifted Students
ELL for students learning English
Special Education
Sun Valley Charter School
Tanae Morrison, Ed.D. - Executive Director
Tel (602) 692-4914
Fax (602) 276-6298
Our Mission
About
Family Link
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Employment
Español
 Like us on Facebook
© 2017 Sun Valley Charter School. Website by 
Integrated
.