skip
Home
Our School
About
Schedules
Enrichment Programs
Calendar
Calendar
Faculty
Administration
Transitional Kindergarten (TK)
Kindergarten
1st Grade
2nd Grade
3rd Grade
4th Grade
5th Grade
Computer Lab
Afterschool
YMCA
Youth Services
Afterschool Classes
Resources
For Parents
For Students
For Teachers
Links
Friends of Van Gogh
ESC NorthWest
LAUSD
Search
Go
For Teachers        
Common Core
Language Arts
Math
Common Core    
Visit LAUSD's link 
http://ccss.lausd.net
 to see the standards. 
Performance assessment modules are available in ELA for grades 1 & 4. 
Math modules are available for grades 3 & 5.
HELPFUL LINKS
Check out this site
 with helpful Common Core teaching strategies                                                                    & 
articles/tips on 
incorporating technology (specifically iPads & apps).
The Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium (Smarter Balanced) is a state-led consortium working to develop next-generation assessments that accurately measure student progress toward college-and-career-readiness. (Click on logo above).
This website is full of free content designed to help educators understand and implement the Common Core State Standards.  It includes practical tools designed to help students and teachers see their hard work deliver results. (Click on logo).
Are you searching for resources to implement the Common Core State Standards?  Here you will find current, relevant, evidence-based tools and professional development to smooth your transition into a new era of teaching and learning. (Click on logo).
Common Core-aligned educational resources, instructional content, performance tasks, and assessment guidelines and materials developed by NYSED and our partners Teacher/Leader Effectiveness materials and resources, such as guidance around Student Learning Objectives and the Value Added Measure Professional development resources, Video libraries, and resources for parents. (Click on logo).
The California Department of Education worked with experts in the field to develop professional learning modulates (PLMs) that support educators in delivering curriculum aligned to the CCSS to all pupils.  The modules are housed on the Brokers of Expertise website and are available online at no cost. (Click on logo).
              © 2017-2018  Van Gogh Charter             
 17160 Van Gogh St.,Granada Hills,CA 91344             
818.360.2141 Phone                 | 818.831.9081 Fax        
 LAUSD                                 
333 S. Beaudry Ave.,Los Angeles,CA 90017                                
213.241.1000 Phone                             | 213.241.8442 Fax                      
Powered by 
School Loop
Contact School Loop
User Agreement
Privacy Notice
Security & Data Policy
Staff Login
Select Language
​
▼
RSS Feeds
Site Map
Original text
Contribute a better translation
Previous
Next
Slideshow
Close