Guest
 | 
Login
Parent Resources
/
c
Staff Directory
Member Districts
Joining the Co-op
Mission and Vision
Services
Training Opportunities
Parent Resources
Teacher Resources
News
Human Resources
Southwest Preparatory School District
 » 
SASPC
 » 
Parent Resources
Parent Resources
The San Antonio Special Programs Co-op serves charter schools and ISD’s across South and Central Texas supporting nearly 1,000 students qualifying for special education and related services. Our staff of educational specialists, speech pathologists, educational diagnosticians, licensed school psychologists, and other related service specialists is dedicated to providing exceptional individualized service. According to both federal and state law, the goal of special education is to assist students with disabilities in becoming as independent as possible as they move through primary and secondary education. Moreover, the law requires each student become employable, if possible, when they leave the educational setting. This may include opportunities to pursue post-high school education. Each program and service provided through special education is devoted to these goals.
Your student’s school is not able to reach these goals alone. The partnerships built between parents/guardians and local education agencies is imperative to supporting each student’s success. All visitors are encouraged to navigate through the resources within this site. If any of our staff may be of service to you, please contact us. We hope you enjoy learning more about the services available through the state, community and our organization.
S
ASPC Parent Resource Directory
The ARC of San Antonio - Community Resource Guide
Education Service Center (ESC) Technical Assistance
Guidance on ARD Guide Production and Required Dissemination
Guidance on Revocation of Parental Consent for Special Education Services
Guidance on Procedural Safeguards Production and Required Dissemination
I'm Determined!
Individuals with Disabilities Act 2004
National Secondary Transition Technical Assistance Center
National Post-School Outcomes Center
National Dropout Prevention Center for Students with Disabilities
Pacer Center
Parent Training and Information (PTI) Projects
Texas Education Agency
Texas Health and Human Services Commission
Texas Higher Education College Board
Texas Parent to Parent - San Antonio and Vicinity - Resource Information
Think College
Transition in Texas Network
United States Department of Education
United States Department of Labor
USDE Office of Special Education Programs
Graduation
Graduation Toolkit
The Graduation Toolkit, developed by the Texas Education Agency, provides details about the new Foundation High School Program and other planning information for high school years and beyond. There are two download options, Individual Flyer pages or Booklet format. Both options provide printing specifications.
Individual Flyers
These flyers allow you to customize packets for particular meetings. These pages are set up with the following specifications: 8.5x 11-letter size, no bleeds-fit page to paper.
This following list contains the individual flyers in English.
Table of Contents
 - cover for packet printing (PDF)
Graduation Program – Overview
 (PDF)
Distinguished Level of Achievement – Benefits
 (PDF)
Texas High School Diploma – Steps
 (PDF)
Endorsements – Choices
 (PDF)
Graduation Program – Checklists
 (PDF)
Information – University Resources
 (PDF)
Information – Workforce Resources
 (PDF)
Graduation Program – Glossary
 (PDF)
This list contains the individual flyers in Spanish.
Programa de graduación - Resumen 1
 (PDF)
Programa de graduación - Resumen 2
 (PDF)
Nivel de Desempeño Destacado - Beneficios
 (PDF)
Diploma de secundaria de Texas - Pasos
 (PDF)
Especialidades - Opciones
 (PDF)
Programa de graduación - Lista de verificación
 (PDF)
Información - Recursos universitarios
 (PDF)
Información - Recursos de Fuerza Laboral
 (PDF)
Programa de graduación - Glosario
 (PDF)
Booklet Format
Both the 
English
 and 
Spanish
 booklet versions of the Graduation Toolkit may require a professional printer. The booklets are set up with the following specifications: 11x17 tabloid, duplex, fold, center staple, no bleeds-fit page to paper.
The booklets include:
Front and Back cover
Individual Flyer pages
My Notes page
Transition
Parents of Middle Schoolers PLEASE READ
Parents of High Schoolers PLEASE READ
Transition Checklist - KNOW THE DIFFERENCE
The 
Texas Education Agency
 has developed a transition and employment guide for students in special education programs and their parents to provide information on statewide services and programs that assist in the transition to life outside the public school system. 
In accordance will HB 617:
The 
transition and employment guide
 must be produced in 
English
 and 
Spanish
 in an electronic format and posted on TEA’s website so that the guide is easily identified and accessed. A school district must also post the guide on their 
website
 and provide written information at the student's ARD committee to help a parent access the guide.
HB 617 - Notification of Transition and Employment Guide (English)
HB 617 - Notificación de Guía de transición y Empleo (Español)
Each school district or special education co-op to designate at least one employee to serve as the district's or 
co-op's designee on transition and employment services
 for students enrolled in special education programs. 
The San Antonio Special Programs Co-op supports HB 617. IDEA requires schools to provide transition services for students so that they will be prepared to enter the adult world, including employment. Students with Individualized Education Plans (IEPs) are required by law to have transition plans beginning at age 16 (age 14 in Texas). However many need transition services such as school-based preparatory experiences, career preparation and work-based learning experiences are never provided. 
This bill supports information, education, and training initiatives to enhance effective transition services from secondary education to postsecondary education and employment for students with disabilities. The provisions in HB 617 aim to enhance the schools resources to successfully implement the requirements of IDEA related to transition planning for students with disabilities. An online guide for students, parents, and teachers will provide up to date, consistent information needed to develop appropriate transition plans and to determine what services and supports are available in the community after the student leaves the public school. Each school district or co-op parents, students and teachers can reach an SASPC Transition Specialist for questions, information and/or resources designed to improve the likelihood of a successful transition to further education, employment and independent living for the student.
School Health and Related Services (SHARS) Program
SASPC schools participate in the School Health and Related Services (SHARS) programs. The SHARS program allows districts to receive federal reimbursement through Medicaid for providing designated related services to special education students. The SHARS program consists of three components.
Participating in three quarterly Random Moment Time Studies
Filing interim claims and receiving payments throughout the year
Completing an annual cost report
Designated services are provided to the students based on a qualifying medical condition and services are reimbursed based on meeting specified requirements. The designated related services categories include the following.
 Assessments
 Audiology
 Counseling
 Nursing Services
 Medical Services
 Occupational Therapy
 Personal Care Services
 Physical Therapy
 Psychological Services
 Special Transportation
 Speech Therapy
Specified requirements for the reimbursement of a qualifying service include the following.
The student must be Medicaid eligible.
The student must be between 3 and 21 years of age.
The student must meet eligibility requirements for Special Education per the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).
The student must have an Individual Educational Plan (IEP) documenting the needed services, location, duration, and frequency.
The District must obtain parental consent to submit services.        
SHARS - Parent Notification Cover Letter & Brochure (English)
SHARS - Notificación a los Padres Carta de presentación y Folleto (Español)
Service provider must meet SHARS Provider and Supervision requirements.
Any needed evaluations or prescriptions must be on file with the District.
State of Texas Assessment of Academic Readiness (STAAR) Program
PearsonAccess Texas
Visit Texas Assessment by Pearson Education, Inc. to access the latest 
resources for, information about and answers to frequently asked questions regarding state assessments in Texas.
Resources
Information
Manuals
Communications
Reports
Downloads
Technology Information
Additional Resources
Training
Frequently Asked Questions
Getting Started
Student Data
Test Setup
Test Management
Reports
Administrative Reports
STAAR
In spring 2012, the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR®) replaced the Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills (TAKS).
The STAAR program includes annual assessments for
Reading and mathematics, grades 3–8
Writing at grades 4 and 7
Science at grades 5 and 8
Social studies at grade 8
End-of-course assessments for English I, English II, Algebra I, biology and U.S history.
Beginning in 2016, TEA will voluntarily administer STAAR EOC assessments for English III and Algebra II.
STAAR Accommodated
An accommodated version of the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR®), STAAR A, is offered as an online assessment in the same grades and subjects as STAAR. The passing standards for STAAR A are the same as any STAAR test. STAAR A provides embedded supports designed to help students with disabilities access the content being assessed. These embedded supports include visual aids, graphic organizers, clarifications of construct-irrelevant terms, and text-to-speech functionality.
Students receiving the following services may be administered STAAR A in one or more subjects:
Students with identified disabilities who are receiving special education services
Students identified with dyslexia or a related disorder (as defined in Texas Education Code §38.003) and receiving Section 504 services
If a student falls into one of these categories and receives accommodations in instruction similar to those found in STAAR A, STAAR A Eligibility Requirements should be reviewed. Additional eligibility criteria found in this document must be met in order for a student to take STAAR A.
Visit the 
Texas Assessment 
STAAR A Resources
 page, of 
Pearson Education, Inc.
© for: 
An Overview of STAAR A
Student Eligibility Requirements
Administrator Training and Student Tutorials
Technology Requirements
​
STAAR Linguistic
STAAR L is a linguistically accommodated English version of the STAAR grades 3–8 and end-of-course (EOC) mathematics, science, and social studies assessments. TEA provides the STAAR L for English language learners (ELLs). ELL students must meet participation requirements for a substantial degree of linguistic accommodation in these subject areas. STAAR L is an online testing program. 
STAAR Alternate 2
The STAAR Alternate 2 assessment was developed by TEA to meet the federal requirements mandated under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), a federal education law previously known as No Child Left Behind. TEA designed the STAAR Alternate 2 to assess students in grades 3–8 and high school who have significant cognitive disabilities and are receiving special education services.
Texas English Language Proficiency Assessment System (TELPAS)
TEA designed the Texas English Language Proficiency Assessment System (TELPAS) to assess the progress that limited English proficient (LEP) students make in learning the English language.
To view all English language learner (ELL) resources, visit TEA's 
ELL webpage
. 
Website by 
SchoolMessenger Presence
.  © 2017 West Corporation. All rights reserved.