Base URL: nowellacademy.org
Parent URL: https://www.nowellacademy.org/welcome-to-nla
File URL: HTTPS://STATIC1.SQUARESPACE.COM/STATIC/575238F1F850829DDE1ADC0C/T/5DD2E44E39175348807B6951/1574102095850/2019-2020+NOWELL+STUDENT+%26+FAMILY+HANDBOOK+%281%29.PDF
 

 

 

2019-2020 

 

Sheila C. “Skip” Nowell Leadership Academy 

Student & Family Handbook 

 

*Updated August, 2019 

 
 

 

1 

Table of Contents 

 
Welcome!

Mission Statement
Where can I learn more about Nowell?
Staff Contacts

Section 2.  Enrollment, Schedule & Attendance Expectations

Enrollment Process
School Calendar
Daily Schedule
Snow Days/Cancellation of School
Monthly Electronic Newsletter

Section 3.  Student & Family Services

Mentor/Mentee
Child Care
Transportation
Food Services
What makes Nowell unique for pregnant and parenting young adults?
Fire drills and other emergencies
Counseling Services
Illness & Medications
Tobacco Policy
Health

Section 5.   Academic & School Program

Graduation Requirements
Grading Policy
Art Exploration Weeks
Credit Acceleration
Special Populations
Academic Integrity
Professional Conduct
Laptop & Computer Policy
S.K.I.P. Values
Community Meetings
Dress
Nowell Bucks & the School Store
Skipper Society

4 
5 
6 
7 

7 
7 
10 
10 
11 
12 

12 
12 
12 
13 
13 
14 
15 
15 
15 
16 
16 

16 
16 
20 
21 
22 
22 
22 
24 
24 
25 
26 
26 
26 
27 
2 

Violating the SKIP Values
Physical violence & threats of physical violence
Appealing Disciplinary Decisions
Use and Possession of Alcohol and Drugs

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

27 
29 
30 
30 

3 

Capital Campus:

Central Campus: 

Kristin Re, English Teacher 

          Conor Sheehan , History Teacher 

Ryan Mullen, Math Teacher 

Jillian Belanger, English Teacher 

Linda Iribarren, History Teacher 

Kanagaratnam Sajeenthiran, Math 

Catherine Marcotte, Science Teacher 

Teacher 

Yomely Marte, English Language 

Development Specialist ​(in partnership 
with the Dorcas International Institute) 

Anthony Carrion, Dean of Students 

Dr. Rosemary Miner, Science Teacher 

Charles “Chachi” Carvalho, 

Instructional Support Specialist 

Johanny Toribio, Student Support 

Kimberly Pineda, Student Support 

Specialist 

Specialist 

Jamarl Johnson, Family Coach (​in 

partnership with the Dunamis Synergy 

Melanie Borges, Family Coach (​in 

partnership with the Dunamis Synergy 

Initiative 

Initiative 

 

The Wrap-Around & School Support 

Melissa Slaiger, Director of Student 

Teams: 

Services 

Donna Charlton, Special Education 

Director 

Grysmarie Genere, College Advisor ​(in 
partnership with the College Advising 

Waffa Freij,​ ​Social Worker 

Laura Harrell, Reading Specialist 

Tricia Kelly, English Language Program 

Corps) 

 

The Administrative Team​: 

Coordinator 

Drew Allsopp, Chief of Finance & 

Judith Russell, School Nurse Teacher & 

Director of Wrap-around Supports 

Operations 

Toby Shepherd, Executive Director 

Bridget Seigle, Special Education 

Jessica Waters, Principal 

Teacher  

4 

 

Welcome!  
Welcome to Sheila C. “Skip” Nowell Leadership Academy.  
  
The Nowell Leadership Academy is a special place.  Here, you will find small class sizes and 
the opportunity to learn through fun, meaningful projects.  Here, your teachers will get to 
know you, will care about your well being, and will do everything possible to make sure you 
succeed.  Here, you will find peers who – like you! – are motivated to work hard, graduate 
from high school and pursue their college and career dreams. 
  
The Nowell Leadership Academy is a public charter school.  The 2019-2020 school year will be 
Nowell’s seventh year since our school opened in 2013.  We serve students from all over 
Rhode Island.  There are no tests to be admitted to Nowell and we never charge tuition. 
  
Our school was founded to serve pregnant and parenting young adults.  We also serve students 
who are not pregnant or parenting, but who may have found a traditional public high school 
to be a challenging learning environment.  Everyone is welcome at Nowell.  
 
Who is Sheila C. “Skip” Nowell?  Sheila “Skip” Nowell is a longtime community activist.  She 
directed the first Rhode Island Head Start program located in South Providence.  In 1973, she 
became the Executive Director of the YWCA of Northern Rhode Island.  In this role, she 
founded the Parenting in Progress program, a GED program for young mothers and fathers. 
The Nowell Leadership Academy was named in honor of Sheila “Skip” Nowell’s years of 
service to Rhode Island’s pregnant and parenting young women and men.  
  
It’s going to be a great year.  Later in this family handbook you will find cell phone numbers 
for all of our faculty and staff.  Please never hesitate to get in touch with any questions. We 
can’t wait to get started with you.  
 
My best, 
 
Toby Shepherd 
Executive Director 
 
P.S. You can contact me directly by phone, email or text message.  My email is 
Toby.Shepherd@NowellAcademy.org​ and my cell phone number is 401-408-3590.  
 
 
 
 
 

5 

Section 1.
School Overview 

 

Mission Statement 

The mission of the Sheila C. “Skip” Nowell Leadership Academy is to ensure that Rhode 
Island’s pregnant, parenting and underserved youth graduate from high school with the 
knowledge and skills they need to be prepared for success in college, career and family life. 
 
Our vision is to become a national leader in providing an exceptionally high quality, 
competency-based high school experience to pregnant, parenting and underserved students. 
 
Board of Directors 
 
Nowell Leadership Academy is governed by a Board of Directors.  The Board meets regularly 
and is composed of various community members.  The Board leads the school in making 
decisions regarding school financial, legal, and academic outcomes.  The Board assists the 
school in achieving its goals and ensures that its mission is met. 
  
Nowell Leadership Academy is a public school. All of its board meetings are open to the 
public. Board agendas are posted and can be found on the Secretary of State website two 
days before meetings are held. 
 
Students and their families who wish to appeal a decision made by administration will be 
referred to the Board of Directors. Further appeals typically go to the Rhode Island 
Department of Elementary & Secondary Education. 
  
The Nowell Leadership Academy Board will convene committees to address important issues 
related to the school and overall organization.  These committees often involve parents, 
students, faculty/staff and individuals from the community.  If you are interested in serving 
on a committee of the Board of Directors, please contact Mr. Shepherd. 
 

2019-2020 Board Members​:  

 

● Sharon Lee, Chair 
● Deirdre Norton, Vice-chair 
● Rilwan Feyisitan, Vice-chair 
● Juan Carter 
● Maria Carvalho 
● Rebeca Dupras 
● Dr. Patricia Flanagan 

● Sulina Mohant 
● Anjel Newman 
● Hon. Maria Rivera 
● Sara Silveria 
● Dawn Souza 

 

 

6 

Where can I learn more about Nowell?  

In March of 2017, the Nowell Leadership Academy adopted a strategic plan.  This document is 
intended to guide Nowell’s growth and development over the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
school years.  You can find a copy of the strategic plan ​online here​.  
 
Our school has been featured in several news articles over the years.  To learn more about 
what kind of school we are, consider watching ​this video​ produced in April of 2017 or reading 
this article​.   

Staff Contacts 

All staff members at Nowell are issued school cell phones.  Students and families are 
encouraged to contact teachers, advisors and other staff members as necessary by phone or 
by text message.  Staff are available by phone or by text message until 8:00 PM at night 
Monday through Friday, with the exception of holidays.  A list of staff and their cell phone 
contacts can be found below.  An up to date version of this list will be available at the school.  
 

Capital 
Campus 

Number 

Kristin Re 

408-3588 

Ryan Mullen 

219-0024 

Catherine 
Marcotte 

408-3342 

Yomely Marte  345-4826 

Central 
Campus 

Chachi 
Carvalho 

Dr. Rosemary 
Miner 

Jillian 
Bellanger 

Johanny 
Toribio 

Number 

School Support 

Number 

744-3578 

Tricia Kelley 

408-3589 

408-1915 

Judith Russell 

408-3580 

713-9134 

Melissa Slaiger 

578-4177 

408-3579 

Laura Harrell 

787-5246 

Anthony 
Carrion 

Kimberly 
Pineda 

Jamal 
Johnson 

Conor 
Sheehan 

793-0628 

Melany Borges  378-5103 

Drew Allsopp 

408-3587 

408-3584 

Kanagaratnam 
Sajeenthiran 

408-3392 

Toby Shepherd 

408-3590 

414-8147 

Linda Iribarren  848-2011 

Jessica Waters 

258-8701 

793-1839 

Grysmarie 
Genere 

TBD 

Waffa Freij 

525-6798 

 

 

 

 

Donna Charlton 

408-3583 

7 

 

Section 2.  Enrollment, Schedule & Attendance Expectations  

Enrollment Process 

Rhode Island students who are interested in attending Nowell Leadership Academy must 
submit an application. Admission to the school is open to all prospective high school students 
that are between the ages 15 – 20 years old as of September 1 of the school year, regardless 
of their age, sex, race, national origin, citizenship status, religion, sexual orientation, color, 
disability, or handicap.  Each spring, an enrollment lottery is held for the following school 
year. Students will be notified of their opportunity to enroll or their position on the waiting 
list. Applicants applying after the lottery is held will be placed on the waiting list. If you’d 
like to know more, a detailed enrollment policy is available, which describes the lottery and 
waiting list procedures.  
 
School Attendance Policy 
 
Many students who enroll at the Nowell Leadership Academy come to our school with 
academic skills that are significantly below grade level. In order for our students to catch up 
to their grade-level peers and get prepared to graduate ready for success in college, careers 
and in family life, we find that our students benefit from as much time as possible in school. 
That’s why Nowell’s student schedule is 8:45am - 2:55 PM Monday-Friday.   We also offer 
frequent Saturday school learning opportunities, and four weeks of summer school. 
 
Students are expected to attend school daily and on time. In the instance that a student is 
absent in excess of 20% of their schedule school time Nowell leadership Academy will follow 
their defined attendance procedures, those procedures are listed below. 
 
Students may occasionally seek modified schedules for learning that takes place outside of 
the school building. We are proud to assist students with childcare costs, transportation needs 
and other logistical challenges. If​ ​a​ ​life​ ​challenge​ ​is​ ​making​ ​it​ ​hard​ ​for​ ​you​ ​to​ ​come​ ​to​ ​school​ 
​on​ ​time,​ ​please tell​ ​the​ ​Dean​ ​of​ ​Students​ ​or​ ​your​ ​advisor​ ​immediately​. The school will work 
with you to try and resolve whatever challenge you are experiencing. Communication is key; 
do not simply stop coming to school and ignore the school’s attempts to contact you. Doing so 
may result in your being referred to truancy court and/or being unenrolled from the school. 
 
Attendance Action Plan 
 
Action #1: ​At the beginning of the year, and the start of every quarter, each student will be 
assigned a mentor group. The purpose of this structure is for every student at 
Nowell to develop and maintain a non-academic personal relationship with an 

8 

adult staff member, as well as provide the students stakeholders a go-to in 
school contact.  Staff members are expected to check-in no less than weekly 
with their caseload of students by phone call, text message and/or in-person 
meetings. 

  
Action #2:​ Every morning beginning at 8:45 AM, the Student Support Specialist calls absent 
  

students in the following order: 

 

1.     Primary number (students direct number if applicable) 
2.     Secondary number (guardian, if under 18). 

  
 Action #3: ​Students who arrive at school after first period (i.e. after 9:40 AM) must text the 

Dean of Students both their expected time of arrival and provide a reason for 
their tardiness.  If a student is under the age of 18, the Dean of Students 
withholds the right to contact the students guardian.  The Dean of Students 
manages this information and is responsible for using it to conference with 
students and guardians regarding their timeliness to school.  

  
Action #4:​ Every Monday, the Director of Student Services (DSS) creates a list of students who 
were absent three to four days over the preceding week.  The DSS, Director of 
Wrap-around Supports, and or the individual student’s mentor may conduct door 
to door outreach to students listed with a goal of (1) understanding why they are 
missing from school, and (2) offering them support to re-engage back in school. 
Attempted home visits, both successful and unsuccessful, are logged in Infinite 
Campus along with any other pertinent information. 

  
Action #5:​ Midway through each quarter (approximately 20 days from the start of the 

quarter), the Dean of Students takes the list of students who have missed 50% or 
more of the quarter and seeks to establish a re-engagement meeting with the 
student and/or guardian. 

  
Action #6:​ Midway through each quarter (approximately 20 days from the start of the 

quarter), the Director of Student Supports (DSS) submits a list of students who (1) 
are under the age of 18, and (2) have missed 50% or more of the quarter due to 
unexcused absences to Nowell’s legal counsel for referral to family court.  (See 
next section for more information on truancy proceedings).  On this same date, 
the DSS sends a letter to the last known address of students who are (1) over the 
age of 18, and (2) have missed 50% or more of the quarter due to unexcused 
absences indicating that the student will be withdrawn from school due to low 
attendance if he/she accumulates another 10 unexcused absences before the 
close of the quarter.  (See next section for more information on withdrawal 
procedures, including the warning letter referred to here). Copies of the above 
letter will be kept on record in each students’ file. 

 

9 

  
Action #7:​ At any point in the school year, a student may request an adjusted schedule. 

Adjusted schedules are typically offered to students who (1) are balancing 
significant work responsibilities, or (2) suffer from a behavioral health disability 
that prevents full-time school attendance.  Adjusted schedules are signed-off by 
the school principal and must accompany an updated graduation plan that clearly 
states how the adjusted schedule impacts the student’s projected graduation 
date.  

  
Action #9:​ Three times throughout the year, the entire NLA team (all faculty and staff) 
commit an entire school day to conducting targeted home visits.  While these 
home visits can sometimes serve multiple purposes (i.e. ensuring seniors are 
aware of their progress towards graduation), they are ultimately about building 
relationships and supporting engagement. 

with targeted messaging during enrollment and orientation meetings.  

  
Action #10:​ At the beginning of the quarter, the cycle of attendance support begins again 
 
Referral to Family Court and/or Withdrawal from Enrollment 
  
Students who are under the age of 18 and miss more than 50% of school in a quarter are 
immediately referred to family court for truancy proceedings. The Family & Community 
Liaison manages Nowell’s truancy caseload in partnership with school counsel.  
  
Nowell will withdraw a student over the age of 18 at the end of the quarter if Nowell has lost 
all​ contact with the student and their family.  The Family & Community Liaison recommends 
a student for withdrawal to the Executive Director, and the Executive Director approves (or 
rejects) such recommendations.  No student shall be recommended for withdrawal unless 
Nowell has conducted no less than one announced visit and no less than one unannounced 
visit to the students last known address.  
  
Students who are peripherally connected to Nowell (i.e. making good faith efforts to identify 
childcare, working with the Director of Student Supports to make academic progress from 
home) are not withdrawn. 
 
The above withdrawal process will take place for students who are involuntarily withdrawn 
after October 1st of the current school year. Nowell withholds the right to consider all 
students with lower than 50% attendance for the month of September as non-starters and may 
withdraw them immediately, per the approval of the Executive Director.  

10 

School Calendar 
In the 2019-2020 school year, Nowell will be open for 216 school days.  Appendix 1 shows the 
current year school calendar.  You can find a copy of the 2019-2020 school year calendar on 
the Nowell Leadership Academy ​website here​.  

Daily Schedule   

Below, please find a copy of the student schedule for both campuses.  The daily schedule may 
be adjusted from time to time to test out new programs or accommodate special events.  An 
up to date copy of the daily schedule will always be available at the school.   
 
2019-2020 NLA Daily Schedule  
 

Time 

Monday 

Tuesday 

8:30 – 8:45 AM 

8:45 – 9:40 AM 

Core 1 

Core 1 

9:40 – 9:42 AM 

Wednesday 
Breakfast 

Reading 
Workshops 

Passing 

Thursday 

Friday 

Core 1 

Core 1 

9:42 – 10:37 AM 

Core 2 

Core 2 

Math Workshops 

Core 2 

Core 2 

10:37 – 10:39 AM 

10:39 – 11:34 AM 

Core 3 

Core 3 

11:34 – 12:04 PM 

12:04 – 12:06 PM 

12:06 – 1:01 PM 

Core 4 

Core 4 

1:01 – 1:03 PM 
1:03 – 1:58 PM 

1:58 – 2:00 PM 
2:00 – 2:55 PM 

2:55 PM 

Core 5 

Core 5 

Core 6 

Core 6 

Passing 

Self-Directed 

Learning 
Lunch 

Passing 

Community 

Meeting 
Passing 

Mentoring or 
Prepare Nowell 

Passing 

Mentoring or 
Prepare Nowell 

Dismissal 

Core 3 

Core 3 

Core 4 

Core 4 

Core 5 

Core 5 

Core 6 

Core 6 

11 

  

 

  

 

Snow Days/Cancellation of School 
Occasionally, the Nowell Leadership Academy closes school due to inclement weather or for 
other reasons.  Nowell makes its own determinations regarding school closures; in other 
words, please do not assume that Nowell is closed just because the Providence, Central Falls 
or another school district is closed due to inclement weather!  You can find out if school will 
be cancelled due to inclement weather through local TV and radio, by visiting the Nowell 
Academy website or the RI Broadcasters website, or by following Nowell’s social media 
accounts on Twitter and Facebook.  

Monthly Electronic Newsletter 

Once a month, the Nowell Leadership Academy sends out an electronic newsletter (“Nowell 
News”) with general updates on school activities.  You can subscribe to Nowell News on the 
Nowell Leadership Academy website by visiting ​www.nowellacademy.org​.  

Section 3.

Student & Family Services 

Mentor/Mentee 

All Nowell students are assigned a Nowell Mentor at the beginning of the school year and that 
mentor serves as the student’s coach, advocate, and confidante throughout the year. The 
mentor helps students set goals, create plans, and make good decisions -- the skills of 
becoming a self-directed learner.  In addition to the Dean of Students, the mentor also serves 
as a main point of contact for a student’s family with the school. 
 
Students meet with their mentor and SDL group every Wednesday. This time of mentoring is 
an important vehicle for students to set academic goals and reflect on progress, troubleshoot 
barriers to academic success, and build community with friends and peers.   
 
School staff check-in with all students on a monthly basis. These monthly check-ins are 
intended to help students keep closer track of their academic progress, their ability to meet 
the school’s professional standards, and their preparedness for college career and family life 
During the course of the following month each student will meet with their campuses teacher 
leader and dean of students to review these monthly report cards and develop action plans 
for improvement, if needed.  This process looks and functions like a traditional workplace 
evaluation.  In the instance that students need additional support to meet the agreed upon 

12 

action plan, parents may be called in for a meeting to give their input into a more intensive 
intervention strategy. 

Child Care 

At Nowell, we know that access to reliable, high quality child care is essential for student 
success.  The staff of Nowell Leadership Academy are available to help students identify 
childcare options.  Students in need of assistance with childcare should speak with the Dean 
of Students or the School Nurse.  
 
Nowell is also pleased to make available a limited number of emergency child care spaces at 
licensed child care sites near both campuses.  In Central Falls, we are pleased to partner with 
the Children’s Workshop located at 151 Hunt Street.  In Providence, we are pleased to 
partner with Dr. Daycare located at 133 Delaine Street (in the Nickerson Community Center 
building).  At both daycare locations, Nowell maintains childcare spots that are available to 
our students on a first-come, first-served basis and will be used for emergencies only with the 
permission of Nowell staff.  Students who think they may need to use emergency childcare in 
order to attend school should alert the Dean of Students or the School Nurse as far in advance 
as possible to ensure that space is available.  While child care can be available at no cost, 
students will need to provide paperwork to the daycare center including a record of the 
child’s immunizations, etc.  
 
Nowell frequently hosts special events and programs that allow our students to bring their 
babies and toddlers to school.  During the regular schedule, however, babies and toddlers 
may not be brought into the classroom area during school hours.  

Transportation

 

Nowell offers all students a transportation support program.   
 
Every five days of attendance, Nowell students who live less than 5 miles from their assigned 
campus are able to earn one of the following means of transportation support:  
 

● A RIPTA 10-ride pass 
● A $20 gas card  
● A $20 gift card (if a student walks and elects not to use a gas-card or bus fare) 

 
Students who live 5 miles or more from their assigned campus will be eligible to receive two 
forms of transportation support per every five days of attendance. 
 
Students who live in the City of Woonsocket receive free daily bus service to the Central Falls 
campus and are therefore not eligible to receive one of the transportation supports described 
above.  In order to participate in Nowell’s transportation support program, students must sign 

13 

and return a waiver form.  For more information on Nowell’s transportation support program, 
please see the Student Support Specialist at your campus. 

  

Food Services
All Nowell Leadership Academy students will be provided with a ​free​ hot breakfast and a ​free 
hot lunch every day. Nowell’s lunch period is thirty minutes.  Our school food partner 
Revolution Foods provides Nowell students with nutritious meals with multiple options at 
every meal.  Students with any special dietary needs should notify the School Nurse. 
Members of the Skipper Society may leave school for lunch (if under 18, Skipper Society 
members need parental permission.)  Students who are not members of the Skipper Society 
may not leave school for lunch. 
 
Students are welcome to bring a packed lunch.  Students may not eat meals during class time. 
Students may be permitted to bring a drink or snack into class at the discretion of the 
classroom teacher.  Students who arrive to school with food may ask the Dean of Students to 
store it in the cafeteria until lunchtime.  Students may not order food to be delivered to the 
school unless given special permission.  
 
At times other than breakfast and lunch, Nowell will maintain a supply of fresh fruit, healthy 
snacks and bottled water.  Students - especially our expecting mothers - are welcome to 
enjoy one of these snacks in class so long as they take care to enjoy their snack in a way that 
is as minimally disruptive to the learning environment as possible. 
 
From time to time, Nowell may order a special lunch for the whole campus.  
 
Section 4.

Student Health and Wellness  

What makes Nowell unique for pregnant and parenting young adults? 

The Nowell Leadership Academy was founded specifically to serve pregnant and parenting 
young moms and dads.  We maintain program offerings that are unique to this population of 
young adults.  These program offerings are described below. 
 

For students 
who are not 
pregnant or 
parenting 

For students 
who are 
pregnant 

● Nowell requires all students to complete a four-semester health and wellness course that 

includes comprehensive sexual health education  

● Nowell partners with a Certified Nurse Midwife to provide access to confidential birth 

control counseling  

● Nowell partners with a local doula who will support students throughout their pregnancy. 

Nowell’s doula will meet with students at school to answer their questions, help them 
understand their options and develop a plan for a healthy and safe birth  

● Nowell’s doula also offers a childbirth class for expecting mothers 

14 

For students 
during birth 

For students 
immediately 
after child 
birth  

For students 
with 
children 

● If a student at Nowell chooses, Nowell’s doula will provide labor support to Nowell 

students during childbirth 

● Following childbirth, Nowell students typically spend six to eight weeks at home on “home 

learning”  

● During home learning, students will complete an academic maternity project for which 

they receive school credit  

● Nowell’s doula and school nurse teacher will complete postpartum visits to the student’s 
home to check in on the student and baby’s health, to monitor the parent’s progress on 
the maternity project, and to develop a plan to return to school 

● Nowell offers private spaces for nursing mothers to breast-pump during the school day 
● In order to prevent repeat unplanned pregnancies, Nowell partners with a certified nurse 

midwife to provide confidential birth control counseling  

● Nowell offers on-demand childcare on a temporary basis to parenting students in 

partnership with local, licensed child-care centers 

● Nowell partners with BoysTown USA to provide the evidence based parenting class 

“Common Sense Parenting” 

● Nowell offers quarterly opportunities for students and their children to engage in fun 
activities together at school including playgroups, arts and crafts experiences, holiday 
themed parties, etc. 

● Nowell offers a supportive community of understanding peers dedicated to your success 

and your baby’s success.   

Fire drills and other emergencies 

The Nowell Leadership Academy Emergency Management and School Safety Plan is in 
accordance with all Department of Education mandates. An Emergency Procedures folder is 
available in each classroom.  
 
If a fire drill, lockdown, or other emergency should occur, students will follow the 
instructions given by staff and will also view and follow the posted fire emergency exit plan.  

Counseling Services 

Nowell is pleased to provide behavioral health screening and counseling services to students 
who elect to receive these services.  Our school social worker is available to meet with 
students confidentially at both campuses in one-on-one and group settings.  You can make an 
appointment to meet with the school social worker by speaking with your advisor, the Dean of 
Students at your campus, or another staff member. 
 
Nowell also maintains a partnership with Sojourner House, a Providence-based non-profit 
organizing provided assistance to victims of sexual assault.  For information on speaking with 
Sojourner’s School Based Advocate, students may notify any school staff member.  

15 

Illness & Medications 

If a student becomes seriously ill at school, they should ask their teacher or advisor to see the 
School Nurse. The nurse (or if the nurse is not available, another school administrator) will 
call the student’s parent or guardian, and arrangements may be made for student dismissal. If 
a student is having a critical medical emergency, the school nurse (or advisor if the nurse is 
not available) will first call 911 and then contact the student's parent or guardian to inform 
them of the student’s status. If a parent cannot be contacted, the emergency contact for the 
student will be notified. 
 
Students suffering from chronic illness or medical conditions must alert the school nurse of 
their condition with proper documentation and directions for prescription delivery. In 
addition, students with allergies to foods, insects, medication, or any other substances must 
notify the school nurse immediately. 
 
All students who are prescribed medication that needs to be taken during school hours must 
notify the School Nurse to make a plan for medication administration. 

Tobacco Policy 

All members of the Nowell community are encouraged to make decisions which support 
optimal health and well-being.  Students who wish to quit smoking should contact the school 
nurse for support.  In accordance with Rhode Island state law, all forms of tobacco use 
(Cigarette, e-cigarette, vapor, hookah pen, chewing tobacco) are prohibited within 100 feet 
of the school building.   

Health 

Nowell Leadership Academy offers Health and Wellness Education to students.  Nowell’s 
health program is to provide information needed to make important decisions about health, 
wellness, and individual lifestyle. Topics related to health such as personal health and 
wellness, social and emotional health, safety, nutrition and physical activity, and family life 
and  sexuality education will be discussed.  The goal of Nowell’s health curriculum is to 
ensure students have the knowledge and skills necessary to assume responsibilities for their 
own health.  Any student, parent, or guardian with concerns about the teaching of sexual 
education may contact the Principal at any time.  

Section 5. 

Academic & School Program  

In the fall of 2017, the Nowell Leadership Academy adopted a new set of graduation 
requirements.  These graduation requirements are described below.  These graduation 
requirements apply to students who maintained 10 or fewer high school credits as of the 
start of the 2017-2018 school year, or to any newly enrolling student.  Students who were 

16 

considered juniors (11 - 15 credits) or seniors (15 - 20 credits) as of the start of the 
2017-2018 school year are exempt from the graduation requirements described below.  These 
students can meet Nowell’s graduation requirements by successfully completing 20 high 
school credits and a senior Capstone project.  

Graduation Requirements 

The mission of the Nowell Leadership Academy is to ensure that Rhode Island’s pregnant, 
parenting and underserved youth graduate from high school with the knowledge and skills 
they need to be prepared for success in college, career and family life. 
  
Nowell’s graduation requirements are intended to ensure that all students who graduate from 
our program have demonstrated true readiness in each of these three areas: post-secondary 
education, careers and family life.  Our goal is to graduate students who are prepared to 
succeed in a college freshmen seminar, to find and maintain family sustaining jobs, and to 
serve as healthy, resilient heads of households.  
  
These ambitious goals require students to reach a high bar before graduating.  Our graduation 
requirements, program of studies, and system of supports therefore, are designed to do three 
things simultaneously, namely: 
  

(1)​  ​To set consistently high expectations for student success, 
(2)​  ​To offer multiple pathways and multiple opportunities for students to reach this 
standard, and 
(3)​  ​To provide an exceptional level of interventions and supports – including more time 
in school – to assist students meeting these standards.  

  
Requirement #1: Prepared for Success in Post-Secondary Education 
   
Like all high schools in Rhode Island, Nowell maintains a requirement that students complete 
our program of studies.  Our program of studies includes coursework in the disciplines of 
mathematics, English language arts, the sciences, social studies, health, foreign languages 
and financial literacy.  Our program of studies also includes elective courses and a capstone 
requirement that applies to our seniors. 
  
Like other high schools, Nowell translates mastery of course content into course “credits.” 
Students who demonstrate mastery in a course typically earn one course credit.  Students can 
move through a course at their own pace and are not bound by “seat time” in order to earn 
credit.  In some courses, students can elect to pursue deeper study in the content and earn 
more than one course credit upon demonstration of mastery.  Students at Nowell successfully 
demonstrate mastery of content by completing both projects (scored by teachers against a 
common rubric that assesses mastery of cognitive skills) and content assessments.  
  
Nowell’s academic program is designed to develop students who possess both content 
knowledge and the skills of self-directed learning.  Self-directed learners seek challenges, 
demonstrate persistence, know how and when to shift strategies, seek help appropriately and 
respond to setbacks without giving up.  Nowell develops self-directed learners through its 
project-based curriculum and its aligned cognitive skills rubric. 

17 

  
Because nearly all students at Nowell have attended one or more high schools before 
enrolling, most students begin at Nowell with some number of credits that transfer from a 
previous high school.  These credits are determined upon enrollment by the principal in 
conjunction with the student and, when possible, the sending high school.  A student whose 
transcript indicates that she has taken but failed a course at a previous high school has the 
opportunity to demonstrate mastery of the content and, if so demonstrated, earn the 
requisite credit in the course.  
  
Nowell’s program of studies is aligned with the admission standards of Rhode Island’s public 
colleges and universities.  This alignment ensures that students who graduate from our school 
can, at a minimum, meet the threshold for enrollment at Rhode Island College and/or the 
University of Rhode Island.  The program of studies requires students to demonstrate this 
level of mastery through four math courses, four English language arts courses, three science 
courses, three social studies courses, two health courses, two foreign language courses, two 
elective courses, and a financial literacy course.  These courses, in combination with a 
workplace learning requirement, constitute 22.5 course credits or the equivalent that 
students must accumulate in order to be eligible for graduation. 
  
Nowell’s specific course offerings and minimum requirements are listed below. 
  

● Nowell offers Algebra 1, Algebra Lab, Geometry, Advanced Math, and Financial 

Literacy.  Students must demonstrate mastery in four math courses or their equivalent 
and at a minimum demonstrate mastery of Advanced Math. 

 

 

 

 

  

  

  

● Nowell offers English 1, English 2, English 3 and English 4 (URI partnership College 

Writing Class).  Students at Nowell must demonstrate mastery in each of these four 
courses or their equivalent. 

● Nowell offers Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Anatomy and Physiology.  Students at 

Nowell must demonstrate mastery in at least three courses or their equivalent. 

● Nowell offers Modern World 1, Modern World 2, AP US History & AP Government. 

Students at Nowell must demonstrate mastery in at least three courses or their 
equivalent. 

● Nowell offers a health program that includes a focus on reproductive health, 

pregnancy, early childhood development and healthy parenting.  Students at Nowell 
must demonstrate mastery in the courses of this program or the equivalent. 

● Nowell offers instruction in foreign language.  Students at Nowell must demonstrate 

mastery in no fewer than two foreign language courses.  

● Nowell offers elective courses.  These elective courses include Nowell’s arts 

programming as well as courses available to students at Nowell at other institutions. 
Students at Nowell must demonstrate mastery in no fewer than two elective courses. 

● Students at Nowell must demonstrate mastery in financial literacy, either by 

18 

 

successful completion/mastery of Nowell’s financial literacy course or its equivalent. 

● Students at Nowell must successfully complete a workplace learning experience 

(Prepare Nowell) and a senior capstone experience, both described in further detail 
below. 

  
Students pursuing a diploma from Nowell are required to complete and demonstrate mastery 
in no fewer than five courses (or, at a minimum, four and a half credits/courses) during their 
time as an enrolled student at Nowell regardless of how many credits/courses are transferred. 
This requirement is intended to ensure that all students spend at least twelve months with us 
prior to graduating. 
  
A summary of the course requirements described above appears below: 
  

● Math: 
4 course credits 
● English Language Arts: 
4 course credits 
● Science:                               3 course credits 
● Social Studies: 
3 course credits 
● Health: 
2 course credits 
● Foreign language:                 2 course credits 
● Electives:                             2 course credits 
● Financial literacy: 
.5 course credit 
● Capstone: 
1 course credit 
● Workplace Learning: 
1 course credit 

  
Students who meet the required performance standards for the Seal of Biliteracy will receive 
the appropriate designation on their diploma. 
  
Before graduating, students at Nowell must also demonstrate basic high school level 
proficiency in reading and mathematics prior to graduating from Nowell.  Students have the 
opportunity to demonstrate proficiency in one of several ways, as outlined below.  Students 
can: 
  

● Reach a minimum score of 50th percentile of ninth grade proficiency in reading and in 
math on the Northwest Educational Association Measures of Academic Progress (NWEA 
MAP) assessment, or 

 

  

  

● Reach a minimum score of the 50th percentile in reading and in math on the Scholastic 

Aptitude Test (SAT), or 

● By earning a grade of 3 or higher on Advanced Placement (“AP”) level courses in the 

math or sciences or in the humanities, or 

● By earning a grade of B+ or higher in college courses in the math & sciences or in the 
humanities disciplines.  Students at Nowell have the opportunity to take advantage of 
college courses at no cost through the State of Rhode Island’s Advanced Course 
Network; if taken for satisfaction of this graduation requirement, the course must be 
approved by the Principal in advance of registration. 

19 

  
Finally, students can satisfy the requirement of demonstrating readiness for post-secondary 
level reading and math coursework by earning acceptance to an accredited, Bachelor’s 
degree granting college or university, or by enrolling in a community college with an 
Accuplacer result demonstrating that a student does not require any remedial college 
coursework. 
  
None of these opportunities to demonstrate proficiency serve as absolute gatekeepers.  For 
example, students may demonstrate proficiency in reading by reaching the 50​th​ percentile of 
ninth grade proficiency on the NWEA MAP assessment while demonstrating proficiency in math 
by earning a B+ in an introduction to engineering course at the Community College of Rhode 
Island. 
  
Requirement #2: Prepared for Success in Careers 
  
All graduating seniors at Nowell must complete a workplace-learning experience.  Juniors at 
Nowell (students with between 11 and 15 high school course credits) are required to complete 
a minimum of two five-hour internship experiences.  Seniors at Nowell complete a minimum 
of one twenty-hour internship experience.  This internship experience will form the 
foundation of the student’s capstone research project.  
  
Workplace experiences at Nowell are intended to further develop the cognitive skills that are 
assessed in the completion of Nowell’s academic projects.  These cognitive skills include 
domains such as critical analysis, synthesizing data, writing, speaking, and presenting, 
explaining and integrating evidence, actively listening and oral presentation.  
  
Under the supervision of the principal, students who demonstrate mastery of academic 
content during their workplace learning experience that is closely aligned with the content of 
a course requirement at Nowell may use their workplace learning experience to satisfy all or 
a portion of their course requirement.  Students who meet the required performance 
standards for a Pathways Endorsement in the Arts, Business and Industry, Humanities and 
World Languages, Public Service, STEM or Teaching will receive the appropriate designation 
on their diploma. 
  
As noted above, all seniors at Nowell complete a senior capstone project prior to graduating. 
The senior capstone project is grounded in a topic of the student of the student’s choosing 
and aligned to their internship experience.  The senior capstone serves as an opportunity for 
students to demonstrate the elements of self-directed learning.  The capstone project and 
presentation are graded against the cognitive skills rubric described above; students satisfy 
this requirement by demonstrating both deep knowledge of the subject matter chosen ​and 
mastery of the aligned cognitive skills.  More information on capstone can be found in the 
Nowell Capstone Guide. 
  
Requirement #3: Prepared for Success in Family Life 
 
Nowell maintains a four- semester health and wellness course that is designed specifically for 
pregnant and parenting teenagers.  The course includes material on reproductive health, 
preventing unplanned pregnancy, maintaining healthy pregnancies, preventing second 

20 

pregnancies, parenting, child development, emotional, mental and social health and 
maintaining a positive body image.  This health and wellness program is intended to provide 
all students – whether or not they are pregnant and parenting – with foundational skills and 
knowledge related to both adult and child health and wellbeing.  
  
In order to satisfy the requirement of graduating students who are prepared for success in 
family life, students must demonstrate mastery in this health and wellness course or its 
equivalent.  Successful completion of an evidence based parenting skills program may be used 
as an equivalent to satisfy this requirement with the approval of the principal. 

Grading Policy 

To pass a course at Nowell, students must successfully complete all power focus areas in a 
course ​and​ complete all projects with grade-level cognitive skills averages.  Nowell offers 
extended course time during the summer for students to complete work they did not finish 
during the academic school year.  To qualify for extended time in a course during the 
summer, a student needs to have completed at least half of all power focus areas ​and​ all 
projects in a course.  A student must obtain a passing cognitive skills average in a course by 
the end of summer extended time to move on to the next course, otherwise the student will 
repeat the previous course.   
 
Students that demonstrate passing cognitive skills averages in projects but have not 
completed all power focus areas may remain enrolled in the course in the following school 
year, but will not earn a credit until they have passed all applicable power focus areas. 
Students that fail to demonstrate passing cognitive skills averages in projects must retake the 
course in the following year.   
 
All classes must be completed with a grade of 70 (C-) or higher. Any grade below that is an 
incomplete. 
 

NLA Grading Scale  

Final Grade 

Numerical Equivalent 

A+ 

A 

A- 

B+ 
B 

B- 

C+ 

C 

97 - 100 

93 – 96 

90 – 92 

87 – 89 
83 – 86 

80 – 82 

77 – 79 

73 – 76 

21 

C- 

70 – 72 

Below a 70 is an Incomplete (I) 

 
To prepare students for career and college, all NLA classes focus on developing cognitive skills 
and content knowledge. Cognitive skills include skills such as critical thinking, analysis, 
problem-solving, and writing. Content knowledge is specific pieces of information that 
students learn in different subject areas - such as the parts of a cell or important historical 
events. 

Art Exploration Weeks  
 
Nowell believes helping students find their passion and interests keeps students motivated to 
learn, be curious, and persevere through challenges.  That’s why, every six to eight weeks, 
Nowell hosts what we call an “art exploration week.”  During art exploration week, students 
at Nowell spend half the day in their regular classes and half the day in different artistic 
workshops.  These workshops include theater, fashion design, dance, drawing, sculpture, and 
more.  In the 2019-2020 school year, Nowell is pleased to partner with the Providence arts 
nonprofit AS220 during its four art exploration weeks.   

Credit Acceleration 
 
Students at Nowell often enroll at our school behind their graduation peer cohort.  These 
students are sometimes referred to as “over-age and under-credited.”  Our students become 
over-age and under-credited in a variety of ways, often because they have missed school for 
an extended period of time before enrolling at Nowell.  Nowell offers “credit acceleration” as 
a way for these students to recover credits they did not fully earn in previous classes and 
move towards graduation faster.  Students who take and pass a class that is eligible for credit 
acceleration earn ​one and a half credits ​as opposed to the traditional one credit.   
 
In order to earn one and a half credits in these courses, students will demonstrate a deeper 
understanding of the content area by completing additional focus areas and projects in the 
course​.  Students work with the Dean of Students to determine if credit acceleration is a good 
fit for them.  

Special Populations 

 

Nowell Leadership Academy adheres to state and federal regulations governing the education 
of children with disabilities.  Nowell also maintains a staffing and programming designed to 
provide extra support and small group interventions to students with acute needs in math and 
reading as well as students who are learning the English language.  
  

22 

The Director of Special Education provides leadership and support to the school community 
through quality special education services, alternative school programs, and student services 
so that all students achieve high academic standards. If you would like more information 
regarding Special Education services, please feel free to contact Donna Charlton, Director of 
Special Education at Donna​.Charlton@nowellacademy.org​.  

Academic Integrity 

At Nowell Leadership Academy we believe honesty and integrity are fundamental in preparing 
our students for college, career, and family life.  We revere these values and hold them 
essential in promoting personal responsibility, moral and intellectual leadership, and pride in 
ourselves and our community. 
 
We expect our students, we will represent themselves truthfully, claim only work that is their 
own, and engage honestly in all academic assignments. 
 
Please refer to the chart below for examples of academic dishonesty. 
 

Plagiarism 

Do 

Dont 

Trust the value of your own intellect. 

Don't purchase papers or have someone 
write a paper for you. 

Undertake research honestly and credit 
others for their work. 

Don’t copy ideas, data or exact wording 
without citing your source. 

Unauthorized Collaboration 

Do 

Dont 

Trust the value of your own intellect. 

Don’t collaborate with another student 
beyond the extent specifically approved by 
the instructor. 

Cheating 

Do 

Dont 

Demonstrate your own achievement. 

Don’t copy answers from another student; 
don’t ask another student to do your work 
for you. Don’t fabricate results. Don’t use 
electronic or other devices during exams. 

Accept corrections from the instructor as 
part of the learning process. 

Don’t alter graded exams and submit them 
for re-grading. 

23 

Do original work for each class. 

Don’t submit projects or papers that have 
been done for a previous class. 

Facilitating Academic Dishonesty  

Do 

Don’t 

Showcase your own abilities. 

Don’t allow another student to copy your 
answers on assignments or exams.  Don’t 
take an exam or complete an assignment for 
another student. 

 
The consequences for academic dishonesty are determined by the individual teacher. 
Consequences may include requiring the student to redo the assignment for a reduced grade, 
requiring the student to complete an extension project, or assigning the student an 
incomplete grade for the class.  The campus teacher leader and core class teacher will play a 
lead role in determining the appropriate restorative consequence. 

Professional Conduct 
 
Students are expected to maintain a professional decorum at all times.  Nowell is a small 
school by design and all members of this community are expected to respect our need for 
high professional standards.  For more information, please refer to the Respect Agreement in 
the appendix of this handbook.  
 
Students found to be violating these standards will receive a single redirection from their 
classroom teacher.  The Dean of Students will be asked to support students who do not 
respond to a redirection from the classroom teacher. 
 
Students are expected to be in the class they are scheduled to be in for the period.  In the 
instance that a student is granted permission by a teacher to work in an alternative setting 
they should expect that each staff member who walks may ask them on why they are not in 
class.  This practice will go for all students who are found to not be actively participating in 
class.  

Laptop & Computer Policy 

All students at Nowell sign a Digital Citizenship Agreement prior to using school issued laptops 
and technology.  Students at Nowell may be eligible to take a school laptop home with them 
if: 
 

● The student is on “home learning” due to maternity leave,  
● The student is out of school for an extended period of time due to a medical need, or 

24 

● The student is participating in an approved college level course for which they may 

need access to a laptop computer. 

 
A student must make a request to either the school Principal or the Director of Wraparound 
Support in order to bring a computer home.  Students who are issued computers to take home 
may also be eligible to take home a wifi “hotspot” in order to access the internet.   
 
Cell phone policy 
 
The expectation at Nowell is that cell phones stay away during the school day unless a 
student is given specific permission to have a cell phone accessible by a classroom teacher. 
 
Each teacher and each classroom may have a different expectation for when cell phones are 
available for use and when they are not.  The common expectation, however, is that when a 
student is inappropriately using their cell phone they will receive a single direction to put 
their cell phone away.  If the student refuses to comply with the expectation set by the 
teacher, the Dean of Students will be called to support.  At that time, the student must 
surrender their cell phone to the Dean of Students until lunch time or dismissal, whichever 
comes first.  In the situation that the student refuses to turn in their cell phone, they will be 
sent home for the remainder of the day in accordance with our remainder of the day 
suspension procedures.  
 
Students with children who need to be accessible by phone may have their childcare provider 
call the Dean of Students and or the Student Support Specialist in the case of an emergency. 
Each campus also has a main phone line that anyone can call.  Students with children who 
need to be accessible by phone can choose to also give this number to childcare providers. 
The Student Support Specialist will answer this phone during regular school hours. 
 
Section 6.
 
In this section, students and families will find some information on what it means to be a 
member of the Nowell community. 

Nowell Community Membership 

S.K.I.P. Values 

Nowell has adopted four core values that guide our work in everything we do.  These are the 
“SKIP” values of Strength, Knowledge, Integrity and Purpose.   
 

Strength.  ​Students of the Nowell Leadership Academy demonstrate strength by 
persevering through challenges, setting and working towards goals and resolving 
conflicts peacefully.   
  

25 

Knowledge​.  ​Students of the Nowell Leadership Academy demonstrate knowledge by 
having a growth mindset, participating in school to the fullest of their abilities, and 
applying what they learn at Nowell in their life and community.   
  
Integrity​.  ​Students of the Nowell Leadership Academy demonstrate integrity by 
cooperating with others, exhibiting academic honesty at all times and representing 
Nowell with pride.  
  
Purpose​.  ​Students of the Nowell Leadership Academy demonstrate purpose by 
arriving at school on time each day, being fully present and on-task during school 
hours, and remaining on-track to graduate. 

 
More examples of how students demonstrate the SKIP Values each day in the section on 
Nowell Bucks below. 

Community Meetings 

Nowell holds weekly all-school community meetings every Wednesday. Community Meeting is 
a time for teachers to share updates and reminders on the week ahead and to celebrate 
accomplishments at the close of the week.  From time to time, Nowell may invite guest 
speakers to participate in Community Meetings.  Attendance at Community Meetings is 
required for all students and staff members. 

Dress 

Nowell maintains a uniform policy for students.  The purpose of our uniform policy is to 
create a sense of community and to support the development of a professional learning 
environment for students and teachers alike.  School uniforms also give students an 
opportunity to tangibly demonstrate that they are prepared to meet the school’s expectations 
for community participation for the day. 
 
Students at Nowell wear a top with a Nowell Leadership Academy logo.  These tops include 
polos, button-up Oxford shirts, t-shirts and hooded sweatshirts.  Any of these Nowell tops are 
acceptable, including Nowell tops from previous school years.  
 
Tops should be worn appropriately and un-altered.  Wearing a Nowell top with writing on it or 
one that has been cut in various ways, or simply draping a Nowell top over one’s shoulder 
does not meet the uniform expectation.  If another shirt is visible under a student’s uniform 
shirt, the undershirt is expected to meet traditional business casual standards. 
 
Nowell does not maintain a uniform policy for bottoms; students are permitted to wear 
shorts, pants, skirts, dresses, shoes, or other accessories of their choosing.  The school will 
not allow any clothing or accessory that includes the depiction of violence, references to 
drugs or alcohol, or is otherwise obscene/gratuitous in any manner.  

26 

 
Students should come to school wearing their school issued uniform.  If a student comes to 
school without their uniform, the school will make one immediately available to a student to 
borrow for the day.  Students should recognize, however, that these “loaner” shirts may not 
always be available in a student’s preferred size. 
 
A student who simply refuses to comply with the dress code will not be allowed to attend 
class for the day and will be sent home in accordance with the procedures described below. 

Nowell Bucks & the School Store 
Students at Nowell have the opportunity to earn and spend “Nowell Bucks.” Students have the 
opportunity to earn Nowell Bucks throughout the school day by exhibiting any of our SKIP 
values. These Nowell bucks will be given out at the discretion of a Nowell staff member in 
increments of $1, $3, or $5.   
 
Typically, students can earn: 
 

● $1 for meeting a particular expectation 
● $3 for exceeding a particular expectation, and 
● $5 for exceptionally exceeding a particular expectation.  

 
For example, a student who arrives at school in their uniform may earn $1 Nowell Buck from 
the Dean of Students in the morning.  A student who settles into class right away and 
enthusiastically begins work on a teacher’s “Do Now” without prompting may earn $3 from 
the classroom teacher.  A student who demonstrates significant resilience in the face of a 
difficult challenge may earn $5 from the Student Support Specialist.   
 
Students can redeem their Nowell Bucks in the School Store.  Students will be limited to the 
purchase of a single item per day.  The School Store will be stocked with different gift cards 
and other items.   

Skipper Society 

In nautical terms, a “skipper” is someone in charge aboard a boat or watercraft.  Members of 
the Skipper Society are the captains, or student leaders, of the Nowell Leadership Academy. 
Skipper Society is the mechanism for which Nowell Leadership Academy re-enforces the 
positive behavior of our students.  
 
Students who attend school a minimum of four out of five days earn admission into the 
Skipper Society for the following week.  Students in Skipper Society will be eligible to go off 
campus during lunch time.  The Skipper Society list will refresh every week.   
 

27 

Students who violate the privileges of the Skipper Society may risk losing their status in the 
Skipper Society for the remainder of the week.  For example, if a student on the Skipper 
Society leaves for lunch but returns to school significantly late, they may lose the privilege to 
remain on the Skipper Society for the remainder of the week. 

Violating the SKIP Values 
Students and teachers alike work hard to make our campuses positive learning environments 
that allow all of us to focus on the work at hand - getting prepared to graduate ready for 
success in college, careers and family life.  Certain behaviors that violate the SKIP values 
distract us from this work.  Swearing, being rude to your teachers, or skipping class and 
roaming around the school building - behaviors like these are unacceptable because they 
waste time, cause frustration, and push us off the path towards graduation and success 
beyond high school.  
 
Nowell has adopted a tiered approach to addressing instances of SKIP Value violations. In the 
event of a SKIP Value violation, the Dean of Students and the student will jointly determine 
the appropriate restorative action to address the issue.  Restorative actions aim to help 
someone who has violated the SKIP Values restore their relationship with the school 
community.  This approach is different from a punitive approach based solely on punishment 
or suspension from school.   
 
Samples of SKIP Value violations and potential restorative actions are presented below. 
 

Tier 1 behaviors/actions 

Unprepared for class, disengaged, minor class disruption, negative attitude 

Tier 1 Restorative Actions 

Reflection sheet,  check in with dean, apology to teacher or student 

Tier 2 behaviors/ actions 

Disrespect to property, gossiping, general rudeness, repeated tier 1 behaviors 

Tier 2 Restorative Actions 

Facilitated conversation with Social Worker, PM school, meeting with support system 

Tier 3 Behaviors/actions 

Unsafe contact, verbal altercation, Major unprofessional behavior, repeated tier 2 
violations 

28 

Tier 3 Restorative Actions 

Check in with social worker, Meeting with Parent, Restorative circle up, Plan developed 
with leader and family  

 
In the instance that students exhibit behavior or actions that is beyond that described above, 
the Nowell Leadership Academy reserves the right to take other actions that we believe may 
be necessary to maintain the safety and integrity of our learning community.  These actions 
are described below. 
 

● Sent home for remainder of the day.  ​Students who exhibit egregious actions or 

behaviors that indicate they are not ready or are deemed incapable of maintaining a 
professional demeanor will be sent home for the remainder of the day. 
 
Students who are 18 years old or older will be expected to leave the campus 
immediately and under their own volition. If students are incapable of leaving on their 
own they may be given up to 30 min to secure transportation home, this decision will 
be made by the Dean of Students and on a case by case basis. The student may be 
required to have a re-entry meeting at the discretion of the Dean of Students 
 
Students who are under 18 years old and must be sent home for the remainder of the 
day will be sent home either with the permission of their parent/guardian or 
preferably will be picked up by their parent/guardian. The student may be required to 
have a re-entry meeting at the discretion of the Dean of Students.  
 

● Emergency multi-day removal.  ​Students who exhibit egregious actions or behaviors 
that jeopardize the safety of the community may be immediately removed from the 
community on an emergency basis for up to three days while school officials create a 
safety plan for that students return to school 

 

Students who are 18 years old or older will follow the procedure identified under “sent 
home for remainder of the day” and in addition to will have to attend a meeting in 
which school officials will review a plan for the students return to school.  
 
Students who are under 18 years old will follow the procedure identified under “sent 
home for remainder of the day” and in addition to will have to attend a meeting, 
along with a stakeholder in their lives, in which school officials will review a plan for 
the students return to school.  
 

● Exclusionary actions extending beyond 3 days.  ​In the rare instance that the Nowell 
Leadership Academy feels it is in the best interest of the student and the school 
community to consider a removal from school that extends beyond three days, a plan 

29 

for longer-term home learning will be developed by the Principal, the Dean of 
Students and the Director of Wrap-around Supports.  In the instance that a student or 
their parent/guardian, does not support the home-learning plan presented by the 
school, the student or parent/guardian may appeal the plan to the Executive Director.   

Physical violence & threats of physical violence 
Nowell is a safe school community.  Especially because we serve a population of pregnant and 
parenting young women, Nowell takes physical violence - and threats of physical violence - 
very seriously.  Any student over the age of 18 years old who physically harms another student 
may be  automatically withdrawn from Nowell.  Any student under the age of 18 years old 
who physically harms another student will be placed a plan of home learning until such time 
the school is confident that the student can be reintegrated into the school community safely.   
 
Students who make threats of physical violence may also face serious consequences, up to 
and including un-enrollment or long-term home learning.  These threats include both direct 
and indirect threatening language (i.e. “If someone crosses me today, I am going to hit 
them”).  These policies apply both in and out of school, and also apply to social media 
interactions.  A student who threatens another student on social media, directly or indirectly, 
during or outside of school hours, will be subject to the consequences described here. 
Students may be financially responsible for any damages that occur as a result of any violent 
behavior or vandalism. As dictated by law, these types of behaviors will require the 
notification of law enforcement authorities.  
 
Students may also be subject to in- or out-of-school suspension.  The Principal approves 
recommendations for suspension on the recommendation of the Deans of Students.   

Appealing Disciplinary Decisions 

Families (or students over the age of 18 years old) have the right to appeal disciplinary 
decisions the Board of Directors for review.  If a family believes that the school has made a 
disciplinary decision in error - for example, because the review process omitted key facts or 
because disciplinary decisions reached were in-equitably applied to multiple parties - they 
should notify the Executive Director of their intention to appeal the decision within five (5) 
business days of receiving notification of the disciplinary decision.  The Executive Director 
will present the Board of Directors with the facts of the incident, the investigation conducted 
by Nowell staff and the disciplinary actions that have been recommended.  The family will 
have an opportunity to present alternative evidence and seek a review of the school’s 
decision.  The Board of Directors will vote to either uphold the school’s initial decision or to 
overturn the school’s decision with a requirement that the school conduct a new investigation 
and seek an alternative disciplinary outcome.  Families also have the right to appeal decisions 
of the Board of Directors to the state Department of Elementary & Secondary Education. 
More information on the RIDE appeals process ​can be found here​.  

30 

Use and Possession of Alcohol and Drugs 

Given reasonable suspicion (i.e. a student comes to school with a strong odor of marijuana), 
students will be questioned as to their possible use of alcohol or drugs and referred to the 
school nurse or a school administrator.  Students who are under the influence of drugs or 
alcohol may be sent home for the day.  Students who are not under the influence of drugs or 
alcohol but may be exhibiting other signs associated with drug or alcohol use (i.e. a student 
whose clothing bears a strong odor of marijuana) may be asked to change into another 
uniform shirt (to be provided by the school), apply body spray or allow the Dean of Students 
to hold the odiferous item until the end of the day. 
If staff have sufficient evidence to indicate that state law has been violated with respect to 
the use, possession, or sale of alcohol or illegal drugs, the school will take the necessary steps 
to ensure the safety of the individual and the community as a whole.  These steps may 
include but are not limited to the following:  
 

● Reporting home to parents,  
● Sending the student home for the day,  
● Consequences extending beyond being sent home,   
● Significant medical intervention,  
● Report to police in accordance with state law and practices by local law enforcement 

agencies 
 

 

31 

 

 

Nowell Leadership Academy 2019-2020 

Respect Agreement 

 

 
As a Leader at Nowell Leadership Academy (NLA) I understand and agree that everyday I will do 
my best to meet the expectations listed below.  
 

● I will be Present. 

o I will attend school daily.  
o I will arrive on time. 
o I will engage in class. 
o I will stay focused on my academic and life goals. 
o I will ensure that my actions are building a safe, welcoming, and supportive 

● I will be Purposeful. 

community. 
● I will be Professional  

o I will wear my uniform as I am expected to. 
o I will turn in my cellphone to ensure that it is not a distraction others or myself. 
o I will use professional language at all times.  

 
As a leader at NLA I understand and agree that every day the NLA staff will do their best to 
meet the expectations listed below 
 

● We will be Present 

● We will be Purposeful  

o We will be there, without judgment, when you come to us. 
o We will give you our undivided attention when you need it. 
o We will value and support both your academic and life goals 
o We will ensure that our actions are building a safe, welcoming, and supportive 

community.  

● We will be Professional  

o We will treat you and your peers with the utmost respect and dignity 
o We will enforce school policies, rules, and norms in a manner that is both fair 

and consistent. 

 
 
 
Name:____________________________     Signature:__________________________________ 

32 

33 

 



