Base URL: nowellacademy.org
Parent URL: https://www.nowellacademy.org/news
File URL: HTTP://FILES.CONSTANTCONTACT.COM/D8531045601/E8190A5D-5B06-4AE7-A7AE-22CE0114F806.PDF
 

 

Thanks in part to Leadership Academy, students 
on the right path 

An added bonus: School captures first-place trophy at Economics Symposium 
Pawtucket Times 
6 Feb 2017 
By JONATHAN BISSONNETTE ​jbissonnette@pawtuckettimes.com 

 
(Photo: Ernest A. Brown/The Times) Toby Shepherd, executive 
director of Nowell Leadership Academy, left, and student Jorayma 
Borges, 16, proudly display the first-place trophy the school won at the 
Global Economics Symposium, held at the John F. Kennedy Library in 
Dorchester on Jan. 27. The team competed with 15 Massachusetts 
and Rhode Island high schools, surpassing East Greenwich High 
School, which placed second, for the top spot. 
 
 
 
 

 
CENTRAL FALLS — Sixteen-year-old Jorayma Borges overcame tremendous adversity 
as a teen mother, and she's hoping to impart some of her knowledge on her peers who 
may find themselves in a similar situation. 
 
A student at the Sheila C. “Skip” Nowell Leadership Academy, Borges in an interview 
with The Times on Thursday said that she “started off rough” as a student at Central 
Falls High School, saying that attending school there “wasn't going the best way for 
me.” Her cousin attended Nowell Academy and she praised it as a great school but 
Borges said she was “hard-headed and stubborn” and wasn't thinking straight until she 
realized she was pregnant. 
 

 

 

Once she came to the realization that she had a child on the way, Borges said she 
understood that “it wasn't about me,” and gave Nowell a try. 
 
Sponsored by the YWCA Rhode Island, Nowell Academy is a public charter school 
founded to serve pregnant and parenting young adults. With campuses in Central Falls 
and Providence serving students from across Rhode Island, the average classroom has 
a student-to-teacher ratio of 10-to-1, which school officials say offers the opportunity for 
teachers to truly get to know their students and care about their well being. 
 
Borges said that while she did slack a bit during her earliest days at Nowell, she said 
that “something just told me one day you could do it.” Now a mother with a 2-year-old 
son, Devonte, Borges says that the school has helped her make 
great strides in and out of school. 
 
“I always kept that mindset. I could still do it. We have such supportive teachers, they try 
to motivate me … Since the beginning of this year, I’ve been here every day, I try my 
best here,” she said. 
 
“The care and support you get and need, they make you feel welcome,” Borges said of 
the staff at Nowell. “You feel accepted, you feel wanted, it makes you feel motivated to 
come to school. I know there’s a lot of girls like me, it makes me feel good to be here.” 
 
Nowell Academy has 160 students and was founded in 2013 and since its inception, 
has graduated 150 students. Most of the students are between 15 and 20 years old who 
started high school elsewhere but got “a bit off track,” and Nowell offers them the 
chance to graduate with a high school diploma, Executive Director Toby Shepherd said. 
 
Borges was part of a team of six students from Pawtucket and Central Falls who, last 
month, won first prize at the annual Global Economic Symposium held at the John F. 
Kennedy Presidential Library. Hundreds of middle- and highschool students from across 
New England presented research and proposed solutions to global economic 
challenges. 
 
Borges said that the focus of their presentation was on child sex trafficking, an issue 
that she has heard stories from friends about enduring similar situations. She said that 
by talking about the issue, it brings to people's attention that child sex trafficking is a 
daily problem concerning the entire world. 
 

 

The team from Nowell that came back to Central Falls as first-place winners included 
Emily Medeiros, Tiffany Medeiros, Arianna Gutierrez, Priscilla Domenech, Jorayma 
Borges, and Mariangelis Gonzalez. 
 
“My goal was to get people to realize that (child sex trafficking) is an issue in the United 
States. We worked on a board that shows the average rate here in Rhode Island and 
other countries to see that the rates are really high … It’s not safe for children, it 
damages people’s futures, it shows that some may not trust or love again, and that’s not 
right. It messes with their emotions,” Borges said. 
 
Their presentation also included a board that displayed, in three tiers, where child sex 
trafficking is most problematic, most notably Malaysia, versus where it is less common, 
such as Sweden. 
 
“I know girls that go through it, I didn’t think it was that much of an issue in the United 
States, I thought it was something that every other kid goes through,” she said. “When I 
started researching and seeing all this information, it was shocking to me, seeing the 
links I've seen made me want to cry. I wouldn’t want anyone to go through that.” 
 
Science education teacher Rosemary Miner said that it was “so very rewarding” for the 
students to come back from Boston with the first prize. 
 
“This was a huge undertaking … that required students to pick a global problem, 
research it, locate a national and international problem, tackle it and think of ways in 
which we can tackle it as local communities and national and global communities,” 
Miner said. 
 
As awards were being presented at the symposium, Borges said she wasn't exactly 
brimming with confidence. 
 
“I didn’t feel I did that good of a job until they said first place,” she said. “I didn’t think we 
were going to win. Everyone was disappointed but the judges thought different. We 
jumped up and hugged each other.” 
 
Miner added: “Several of these groups were seasoned at this presentation and had 
done other events. We had not but we had confidence, we knew we were prepared, 
once we got there and saw the trophies, we wanted the first prize trophy. These young 
women found they have a voice and a solution and contributions to make, they can 
compete at the highest level.” 

 

 
“I think we were different on that bus coming home than on that bus going there … A lot 
of girls broke their stage fright, they got on stage and did it, those are the big victories 
but we wanted the trophy,” Miner said. “It’s just incredible, I’ve never been more proud 
of a group of young women than that.” 
 



