West Philadelphia Achievement 
Charter Elementary School
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
About
Mission Statement
CEO
Board
Staff
Address and Hours
News
Curriculm
Technology at WPACES
Art at WPACES
Music at WPACES
Resources
Back to School Info
2017-2018 School Uniform
Summer Bridge Calendar
School Supply List
Summer Projects
Student Handbook
Calendar
Parents
Admissions
Public Notices & School Policies
Bell Schedule
Lunch Menu
Counselor's Corner
Employment
Photo Gallery
Videos
Lost and Found
November Newsletter
Students
Clubs & Activities
Storia
Study Island
Everyday Math
Technology Links
Staff
Our Staff
Prime Point
Outlook
Gmail
PowerSchool
Substitute Teachers
Equipment Checkout
Contact
| Login
Search
Mission Statement
The School’s Mission Statement is that “All Children Can Learn”. At WPACES we are dedicated to stimulating excitement about learning in a technology & arts infused safe and respectful environment. We are committed to using the arts and technology to produce educated youth who are prepared to take on the new and more global challenges of our society. We are also committed to helping children find their area of intelligence and use it to maximize their learning. It is also our mission to foster true partnerships with parents and the community.
When students leave this school they will have a firm foundation in the skills necessary to be successful in the middle school curriculum. Students will have the background in the arts and technology to formulate creative, expressive designs, interpretations and appreciation for other students work as well as their own imagination and work. Students will also have a strong sense of accomplishment as they experience success, learning opportunities, celebration of what they can do, the ability to take risks as a learner and have the ability to develop trusting relationships with peers and other adults. Students at WPACES are trained to be critical thinkers and strive to always be productive members of a community of learners inviting dialogue, exchange and collaboration.
A philosophical tenet is that the community must be a part of the school. Our school has an ongoing commitment to inter-generational programming through a partnership with paraprofessionals at Temple University. They play a key role in the daily academic enrichment activities of the school.
Please see our Bullying Policy below.
WPACESAnti-BullPolicy
Mission Statement
Ceo
Board
Address and Hours
Public Notices
Curriculm
Technology at WPACES
Art at WPACES
Music at WPACES
© West Philadelphia Achievement Charter Elementary
6701 Callowhill Street, Philadelphia, PA 19151
Phone: 
(215) 476-6471
Striving for Excellence...
A Place Where All Children Learn
 Powered by Edlio
Calendar
Staff Directory
Homework
Directions