West Philadelphia Achievement 
Charter Elementary School
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
About
Mission Statement
CEO
Board
Staff
Address and Hours
News
Curriculm
Technology at WPACES
Art at WPACES
Music at WPACES
Resources
Back to School Info
2017-2018 School Uniform
Summer Bridge Calendar
School Supply List
Summer Projects
Student Handbook
Calendar
Parents
Admissions
Public Notices & School Policies
Bell Schedule
Lunch Menu
Counselor's Corner
Employment
Photo Gallery
Videos
Lost and Found
November Newsletter
Students
Clubs & Activities
Storia
Study Island
Everyday Math
Technology Links
Staff
Our Staff
Prime Point
Outlook
Gmail
PowerSchool
Substitute Teachers
Equipment Checkout
Contact
| Login
Search
Admissions
West Philadelphia Achievement Charter Elementary School Admissions
As a public charter school, West Philadelphia Achievement Charter Elementary School (WPACES) is open to all students.
West Philadelphia Achievement Charter Elementary School is public school operating under a charter granted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Admission to the school is open to all eligible students who are residents within the limits of City of Philadelphia and the state of Pennsylvania in grades K through 5.
West Philadelphia Achievement Charter Elementary School does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, nationality, creed, gender, ethnicity, mental or physical disability, proficiency in English, citizenship, immigration status, or prior academic achievement when recruiting or admitting students.
Children applying for Kindergarten must be five years of age by September 1st of the current year in order to be accepted into the school. If the child is not five by the deadline, parents may apply the following year for possible admission to the school.
Children applying for First Grade must be six years of age by September 1st of the current year in order to be accepted into the school. If the child is not six by the deadline, parents may apply the following year for possible admission to the school.
The enrollment application for the 2017 - 2018 school year is to the right of this paragraph.  Please click to download.  The application must be filled out completely and all required documents must be submitted in order to be accepted. 
Admissions
Parents
Public Notice & Policies
Volunteer Opportunities
Photo Album
Videos
2017-2018 School Uniform
2017-2018 EnrollmentApplication
© West Philadelphia Achievement Charter Elementary
6701 Callowhill Street, Philadelphia, PA 19151
Phone: 
(215) 476-6471
Striving for Excellence...
A Place Where All Children Learn
 Powered by Edlio
Calendar
Staff Directory
Homework
Directions