Explore
x:
Home
About Us
School Information
Lab Hours
Calendar
Frequently Asked Questions
Directions
Student Handbook
School Board
School Improvement Council
Contact Us
Leadership
News
Careers
Register Your Student
Follow Us
  Traducciones ~ Translations ~ 번역
Richland Two Charter High School
Home
News
R2i2 is offering Dual Credit courses for the 2017-2018 School Year
R2i2 is offering Dual Credit courses for the 2017-2018 School Year
8/30/2017
See below for lots more information about how you can get a head start on your post-high school experience!
What is Dual Enrollment?
Dual Enrollment is taking college classes while you are still in high school. Sometimes these classes can also count toward high school credits.
These courses can save you thousands of dollars in tuition costs;
And shorten the time it takes to earn a college degree.
Each year, hundreds of dedicated high school students take these courses through MTC’s Dual Enrollment program, and get a jump-start on their college education!
There are a few different options:
Work with your school to get approval to come to MTC and take Dual Enrollment classes on one of our six regional campuses.
Find out if you’re in a district where MTC faculty are already teaching courses in your high school.
Take Dual Enrollment courses that are available online.
Please see your high school guidance counselor to find out which option is best for you. 
Who is Eligible?
If you are currently a high school junior or senior in the Midlands, then you are eligible to enroll in Dual Enrollment courses as long as you meet placement testing requirements. To be accepted into the Dual Enrollment program:
Apply to MTC using the 
Dual Enrollment Online Application
.
Complete the Placement Test
 and place into the courses you wish to take.
Receive permission from high school principal/guidance counselor and parents.
Tuition and Fees
Students enrolled in MTC Dual Enrollment classes held at their high schools are responsible for the cost of their books. The cost of tuition and fees for MTC classes held on high school campuses is coordinated between the college and school district.
Students who enroll in courses held on MTC campuses are responsible for the cost of tuition, fees, and books.
*** If you take at least six college credit hours during a semester, that may reduce your tuition greatly by receiving South Carolina Lottery Tuition Assistance. ***
We’ll help you through the financial aid process, and you can find more information on the 
Lottery Tuition Assistance form
.
What are the Advantages of Dual Enrollment courses?
Save money on college courses
Get exposure to a college atmosphere before graduating high school
Gain a wider range of course options for high school
Experience challenging coursework in a comfortable environment
Work closely with expert faculty
How to Become a Dual Enrollment Student
It only takes a few simple steps to enroll in the Dual Enrollment program and kick-start your college education!
If your high school hosts MTC courses on the high school campus, ask your guidance counselor how to proceed.
If your high school does not host MTC courses, complete the following steps:
Receive permission from your high school principal/counselor and parent/guardian.
Complete the online application
.
Complete assessment testing
 to determine course placement. (Don’t worry – we’ll help you through this step!)
Schedule appointment with an MTC counselor for advisement and registration.
You have the opportunity to potentially graduate high school with a high school diploma AND an associate degree. Why not take advantage today?
Source: 
https://www.midlandstech.edu/learn/academics/middle-school-and-high-school/early-college
Richland Two Charter High School
7900 Brookmont Lane  |  Columbia, SC 29203  |  Phone: (803)-419-1348 |  Fax: (803)-935-1212
Accessibility
 | © 
2017 
Richland School District Two
Original text
Contribute a better translation