Policies & Forms
Animal Policy
                    Prior to the animal visit, teachers will send home a permission slip to all students who will be in contact with the animal stating the date and time of the animal visit. Permission slips must be signed and returned before the animal visit.                
                    Owner of the animal will sign an agreement form before animal is permitted on campus. Owners will provide shot records and any other vet information that may be needed.                
                    Teachers must assume primary responsibility for the humane and proper treatment of any animal in their classroom.                
                    Only the teacher, owner and designated students are to handle the animal.                
                    If animals are to be kept in the classroom on days when classes are not in session, the teacher must make arrangements for their care and safety. This information must be given to the Co-Directors in writing.                
                    Staff members and or students who have been bitten by an animal shall report such an incident to the Co-Directors. The Co-Directors will notify the public health authorities if the injury merits follow-up. Public health authorities will determine the appropriate action and the period of confinement for the animal if an injury results. Any animal involved in a serious injury must be impounded until authorization for release is granted by the health authorities.                
                    The Board of Directors may establish procedures for appropriately and humanely bringing live animals into the classroom.                
                    Seeing-eye and service dogs are permitted in the classroom to perform the functions for which they are trained. A dog's laminated identification card may be requested for verification.                
back to top
Bully-Free Campus Policy
DISCIPLINE
It is the philosophy of Willow Creek Charter that no one has the right to interfere with an individual’s learning, safety and well-being. Discipline at WCC is used to ensure that ALL students are learning, while also helping students learn self-discipline and appropriate character life skills. Severity and frequency of offenses may determine suspension or expulsion. For a discipline program to be effective, parent and guardians need to support the school in educating students on the importance of behavior. If a student is feeling harassed or bullied, he/she should speak with someone they trust – a staff member or parent/guardian. If the student is uncomfortable bringing the issue to staff directly, a parent/guardian can schedule a meeting with teachers or administration to resolve quickly and effectively, leaving ALL students feeling safe in their school environment.
Students who choose to break school procedures are subject to correction by teachers, staff members, administrators, police and or juvenile authorities. The student will be disciplined according to the procedures in place at Willow Creek Charter. AZ State Law 13-2911 states that students who interfere with or disrupt an educational setting are breaking the law. We reserve the right to call our local law enforcement if a student chooses not to respect the right of others to learn in a safe environment.
School & Classroom Rules:
Each classroom has accepted rules of behavior posted. All behaviors listed below are inappropriate and not allowed in the classroom or anywhere on school for each student:
 Swearing, inappropriate language and/or gestures
 Truancy 
 Leaving class or campus w/o permission 
 Obscene, indecent, or grossly inconsiderate behavior or materials
 Cheating, allowing cheating
 Computer tampering and unauthorized web searches
 Threatening to injure self, staff or peer
 Damaging or tampering with school, staff or personal property
 Insubordination (refusing instruction or arguing)
 Disrespect towards adults / staff
 Intimidation (teasing or bullying)
 Possession, use or sale of alcohol, tobacco, drugs and/or paraphernalia
 Lying or providing false information
 Sexual harassment
 Theft
 Arson / Bomb Threat
 Assault
 Fighting and/or instigating fighting
 False fire alarm
 Weapons, fireworks, paintballs, dangerous instruments or contraband
 Unapproved electronic devices
 Possession of laser lights
 Possession of trading cards
 Entering school grounds during non-school hours
 Gross dress code violations
 Bullying / Gossiping
 Romantically-based affection is not allowed at any time on campus 
Playground Rules:
- All school rules (listed in above) MUST be followed on the playground!
- No twisting, side swinging or jumping off of swings. Sit on Bottoms!
- No running/standing near swings. Please stay off the boulders on both playgrounds.
- Students must remain in the playground fencing and may ONLY leave if given permission by staff
- No hitting, kicking, pulling or pushing others. No swearing or put downs.
- No tag or roughhousing (play fighting, wrestling, martial arts, arm wrestling)
- Students may not bring personal play equipment
Bullying
ARS 15-341(A) requires that public schools “Prescribe and enforce policies and procedures to prohibit pupils from harassing, intimidating and bullying other pupils on school grounds, on school property, on school buses, at school bus stops, at school‑sponsored events and activities and through the use of electronic technology or electronic communication on school computers, networks, forums and mailing lists.” AT WCC, we have a zero-tolerance policy for bullying and gossiping. We believe that everyone at our school should feel safe, secure and accepted at all times. Please see our “School Bullying Policy” below for additional details. Parents and students need to sign and return our bullying and gossiping pledge and discipline policy with the enrollment application. 
Discipline Procedures
When a student breaks a classroom or school rule, one of the first options is a recovery time in the classroom. During this time, the student is expected to sit quietly and reflect upon his or her choice of behavior. When a student repeatedly chooses to break the rules, or is disruptive to the learning taking place, he/she may be sent to the office. A “Discipline Report” from the teacher will follow the student who is sent to the office. Many interventions are employed in the classroom and in the office to facilitate the student’s success at school. When a student chooses not to follow the guidelines of the school or classroom after intervention, removal of the student from the group or incident may occur.
After repeated attempts to correct any inappropriate or unlawful behaviors, a 
Behavior Contract
 will be initiated. 
back to top
Field Trips
                Fieldtrips are important extensions of classroom learning.  Their experiential nature makes learning real and concrete, and deepens the students’ sense of the relevance of what they are studying.  The Director must approve all fieldtrips.  Before any student is taken from the school grounds on a fieldtrip, written permission must be obtained from a parent / guardian.  The school may require parents to pay all or part of any admission fees, meals or other expenses.  Students are expected to be well behaved while on fieldtrips and to follow teacher and chaperone instructions promptly.  Poor manners, disruptive behavior, or failure to follow directions will jeopardize a student’s right to participate in subsequent class outings.            
                Parents who volunteer to transport students must fill out required paperwork in the office prior to each fieldtrip, a copy of your current driver’s license and proof of insurance. Please know that driving to an event does not mean you will also attend the event with the students and bringing other family members is prohibited. We reserve limited seating and space at these events and must keep within those parameters.            
back to top
Handbook
back to top
Immunization Policy
    Parents must provide proof of their child’s immunizations to the office prior to admission. Records need to be updated annually.  If your child is exempt from immunizations for medical reasons or parents personal beliefs, you will need to fill out the 
Immunization Exemption Form
. Parents should stay current with their child’s immunizations.  In case of an outbreak in our school, the immediate exclusion of unvaccinated or under-vaccinated children from the classroom is the best and only immediate tool to halt the spread of the disease. The exclusion time could be up to three weeks!
School Immunization Requirements
back to top
Student Internet User Agreement
                Students who work in the computer lab must read, understand and sign our 
Student Internet User Agreement
 prior to any computer classes.            
back to top
Medicine Release Form
    Any medication needed by the student must be provided by the parent in the original container and label attached. Any prescription must clearly state the student’s name and give clear dispensing directions. Parents must turn in the 
Administering Medicine To Students form
 with the medication or inhaler. STUDENTS ARE NOT PERMITTED TO HAVE MEDICATION IN THEIR POSSESSION ON CAMPUS. This includes over-the-counter medications such as, Tylenol, advil, cough drops, etc. Over-the-counter medications require the same paperwork as prescribed medications, and will be kept locked in the Office as well.
Child Find
    It is Willow Creek Charter School’s responsibility to inform the general public and all parents of students enrolled in our school of our responsibility to make available special education services for students with disabilities and how to access those services.  In addition, we have a responsibility to provide information regarding early intervention services for children birth through two years of age.
Childfind
    For additional information, see: 
http://www.azed.gov/special-education/az-find/
back to top
Special Education Parents Rights
Special Education Records
back to top
Pick up and Drop off
Read our transportation policy here
back to top
Residency Requirement
                In Arizona, schools are required to have a proof of residency on file each year. Willow Creek Charter must have a form, plus a copy of proof of address of residency. The residency of a student is determined by the residency of the parent or guardian with whom the student lives. For more information, see: 
http://www.azed.gov/finance/files/2011/10/arizona-...
Residency Documentation Form
back to top
Student-led Conferences
                At WCC, we have quarterly student-led parent/teacher conferences. Research has shown that student-led conferences contribute to the academic progress of children and encourage learners to take responsibility for their growth as active, rather than passive participants. At our conferences, students will present their report cards and samples of their work to each parent.            
                There will be several students present during each time slot. Your child's teacher will be available to answer questions or clarify information.  If you would like to speak with your child's teacher regarding any private concern or these times do not suit your family's needs, please notify the teacher and arrange for an individual conference.            
back to top
      Copyright © 1999-2017    
    'A' Rated School    
    ZERO tolerance for bullying ensures a safe, family-like environment    
    Small Class Size offers a personalized education for each student    
    FREE after-school tutoring    
    FREE K-8 Public School (Full-day Kindergarten ONLY $9/day    
    Cutting Edge Technology engages students in learning and computer literacy    