Skip to main content
Shawano School District
Facebook
Twitter
Skyward
Skyward Employee
Google
Office 365
Home
District
Schools
Families
Activities
Community Ed
About Us
About Shawano Schools
The Hawk Way
Employment
Contact Us
Departments
Administration
Building and Grounds
Business Office
Communications
Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment (CIA)
Technology Department
Pupil Service
District Staff
Website Compliance
Calendars
School Year Calendar
District Office Calendar
District Wide Calendar
Facilities Calendar
School Board
Annual Notices
Agendas
Minutes
Committee Meeting Agendas
Board Members
Board Policies / Neola
For Employees
Aesop
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
FMLA
School Messenger
Skyward Employee Access
Vitality
WEA Trust
Shawano High School
About Us
Communications
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
Student Services
Staff Directory
Automotive Program
Transcripts Request
Academic & Career Planning (ACP)
2017 Senior Class Video
Shawano Middle School
About Us
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
PTA
Staff Directory
Olga Brener Intermediate
About Us
Boys & Girls Club of Shawano
Principal Update
Dean of Students
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
PBIS
PTO
School Counselors
Staff Directory
Hillcrest Primary
About Us
Breakfast & Lunch Menu's
Winter Weather Information
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
School Counselor
PTO
Staff Directory
LEADS Primary Charter
About Us
17-18 School Supply Lists
SUMMER SCHOOL - 2017
Monthly Menu
LEADS - Intent to Enroll
Forms & Resources
Monthly Newsletter
Math Information
Media Center
School Counselor
Staff Directory
Future Families
Why Shawano?
Open Enrollment
New Student Enrollment Request
Current Families
Back to School
Skyward Family Access
Yearly Student Data Update
Online Free/Reduced Application Directions
Food Service & Menus
Breakfast & Lunch Menus
Online Free Reduced Application Directions
High School Food Court
Taher Food Service
Summer Meal Site Finder
Handbooks
Shawano High School
Shawano Middle School
Olga Brener
Hillcrest Primary
LEADS Primary Charter
Family Resource Center
Activities
Clubs
2017-2018 Club Calendar
Student Council
Forensics
Homecoming
Winter Wonderland
Club/Activity Descriptions
Arts
Band Homepage
Performing Arts Staff
Arts Calendar
General Athletics
Staff Directory
Bay Conference
Coaches Corner
Documents and Forms
NCAA Information
Sports Medicine
Strength & Conditioning
Student Athlete Survey
Booster Club
Hall of Fame
Signing Day Spring 2017
Signing Day 2016
Signing Day 2017
Summer Athletic Schedule
HS Teams
Baseball
Boys Basketball
Girls Basketball
Cheer
Cross Country
Football
Boys Golf
Girls Golf
Hockey
Pom Pon
Boys Soccer
Girls Soccer
Softball
Boys Swim
Girls Swim
Boys Tennis
Girls Tennis
Track
Volleyball
Wrestling
MS Athletics
Boys Basketball
Girls Basketball
Cheer
Cross Country
Football
Track
MS Soccer
Volleyball
Wrestling
SCMS Club/Activity Descriptions
COMMUNITY EDUCATION
SSD Activity Calendar
About
Advertise
Contact Us
Web Store
Directory of Family Resources
eNews Sign Up
Hall Walking
Links - Community
Links - Kids
Links - Wellness
Shawano Volunteering
Web Store
CLASSES
Brener Running Club Info
Current SCE Magazine
Calendar (Classes)
Classes
Class Evaluation
Registration Q&A
Register Online
Registration Form
Teach a Class!
Web Store
FACILITY USAGE
Request Facility Use
Facilities Calendar
Activities Calendar
Speaker Form
HS Commons & LGI
SSD Staff
AQUATICS
Aquatic Activities
Memberships
Water Aerobics
Lightning Policy
Pool Rentals
Pool Rules
Swimming Lessons: Youth
Red Cross Swimming Levels
Lifeguard Application
Web Store
S.T.E.P. Information
Online Application Form
About Us
Departments
Calendars
School Board
Annual Notices
Agendas
Minutes
Committee Meeting Agendas
Board Members
Board Policies / Neola
For Employees
Annual Notices
Annual Notices
A listing of the Annual Notices
Academic Standards
Accountability - School District
Alcohol/Drug Possesson or Use Prohibited Policy 5530 - Drug Prevention
The Shawano School District regards chemical abuses, addiction or dependency as it does any other behavioral/medical problem.  The District believes that it has an educational role in helping students make responsible decisions. SSD believes that the use and possession of alcohol and other drugs is unlawful and harmful.  For this reason disciplinary sanctions are provided.  
Asbestos Notification
Assessment - District & School Website - http://wisedash.dpi.wi.gov/Dashboard/portalHome.jsp
Assessment results will be publicly posted at the Department of Public Instruction website on WISEdash. Once results are released for all required state assessments they will be reported in the WISEdash Public Portal. 
Attendance - Policy 5200
In accordance with State law, all parents/guardians are responsible to have their children (between ages 6-18 years old) attend school fulltime unless they have a legal excuse. (Wisconsin State Statute 118.15(1)(a) or SSD Policy #5200.)
Bullying & Harassment Policy 0145-SEXUAL & OTHER FORMS OF HARASSMENT, 3362 & 4362 EMPLOYEE ANTI-
All students/employees have a right to feel safe; therefore, harassment and/or bullying will not be tolerated. The District strives to provide a safe, secure and respectful learning environment for all students and school personnel in school buildings and on school grounds, school buses and at school-sponsored activities POLICIES: 0145 SEXUAL & OTHER FORMS OF HARASSMENT, 3362 & 4362 EMPLOYEE ANTI-HARASSMENT, 5517 STUDENT ANTI-HARASSMENT, 5517.01 BULLYING
Bullying Incident Report
Child Nutrition Programs - Policy 8500 - Food Service, 8531 Free & Reduced
Children need healthy meals to learn.  Shawano School District offers healthy meals every school day.  Your child may qualify for free or reduced meal prices.  MEAL PRICES: (BOARD APPROVED) BREAKFAST - ELEMENTARY	$1.00 BREAKFAST  MIDDLE & HIGH SCHOOL	$1.35 ADULT BREAKFAST               	                     $1.60 REDUCED BREAKFAST                        	             $   .30 ELEMENTARY                     	                $2.30MIDDLE & HIGH SCHOOL.                  	                   $2.45ADULT LUNCH                                $3.20	 REDUCED LUNCH                          $  .40 MILK.                                  $  .30 Free & Reduced applications are available online through the student Skyward Yearly Online Data Review through Skyward Family access, click on Yearly Online Data Review or click on Food Service, click on application link, click on Add an Application. Complete the application and submit. Families can monitor the status of the application through the Skyward Family Access.  (Lunch prices, if raised, are done at very small increments.)  Policy #8531 Free and Reduced.
Directory Information/Student's Records/Student Privacy
(SSD POLICY 2416- STUDENT PRIVACY AND PARENTAL ACCESS TO INFORMATION/STUDENT RECORDS, POLICY 8330 ? STUDENT RECORDS)The Shawano School District maintains student records for each student attending school in the District.  State and federal law require that the maintenance of such records assure confidentiality.  Accordingly, only those individuals or agencies specifically authorized by state and federal law are granted access to a student?s records.  An adult student, or the parent/guardian of a minor student, may inspect, review and obtain copies of student records kept by the school in accordance with Board policy and established procedure. (SSD Policy #2416 and #8330. However, in accordance with the Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act and Wisconsin State Statute 188.125(1(b) and (2)(j), the Shawano School District has declared the following personally identifiable information contained in a student's education records as directory data/information: a student's name;  photograph; participation in officially-recognized activities and sports; height and weight, if a member of an athletic team; awards received. 
English Language Learners
(POLICY #2260.02)All limited-English speaking students enrolled in SSD will be accessed on the basis of individual need to accord with their level of proficiency in English.  The District will notify the student?s parent(s)/guardian(s) regarding the student?s inclusion in or exemption from the competency testing program.  For more information about this service, please contact the Director Pupil Services 715-526-2192 or the Building Principal of a specific school in our District
Equal Educational Opportunities/Nondiscrimination (Policy #2260)
The Shawano School District does not discriminate on the basis of religion, sex, race national origin, age, ancestry, creed, color, political affiliation, National Guard membership, state defense force or any reserve component of the United States military or state military forces, pregnancy, marital or parental status, sexual orientation, or physical, mental, emotional orlearning disability or handicap or other bases prohibited under state or federal law. It is the policy of the Shawano School District that no person may be denied admission to any publicschool in this District or be denied participation, be denied the benefits of, or be discriminated against in any curricular, extracurricular, public service, recreational, or other program as required by Section 118.13 of the Wisconsin State Statutes.This policy also prohibits discrimination as defined by Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (sex), Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (race, color, national origin), Section 504 Rehabilitation Act (handicap) and AmericansDisabilities Act of 1990 (disability). Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended, is a comprehensive federal law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in anyfederally funded education program or activity.The District encourages informal resolution of complaints. A formal complaint procedure is available and may be obtained from the District Administrative Office, 218 County Road B,Shawano, WI 54166. Any questions concerning the nondiscrimination policies or procedure should be directed to the District Administrator, Shawano School District, 218 County Road B, Shawano, WI 54166 or call 715-526-3194.
Homeless Children - Policy 5111.01
Medication Administration to Students
The Board of Education shall not be responsible for the diagnosis and treatment of student illness.  The administration of medication to a student during school hours will be permitted only when failure to do so would jeopardize the health of the student, the student would not be able to attend school if the medication were not administered during school hours, or the child is disabled and requires medication to benefit from his/her educational program.For purposes of this policy, "practitioner" shall include any physician, dentist, podiatrist, optometrist, physician assistant, and advanced practice nurse prescriber who is licensed in any state.  "Medication" shall include all drugs including those prescribed by a practitioner and any nonprescription drug products.  ?Administer? means the direct application of a nonprescription drug product or prescription drug, whether by injection, ingestion, or other means, to the human body.  ?Nonprescription drug product? means any nonnarcotic drug product which may be sold without a prescription order and which is prepackaged for use by consumers and labeled in accordance with the requirements of State and Federal law.Before any prescribed medication may be administered to any student during school hours, the Board shall require the written instructions from the child's practitioner accompanied by the written authorization of the parent.Nonprescription drug products may be administered to any student during school hours only with the prior written consent of the parent.  Substances, which are not FDA approved (i.e. natural products, food supplements), will require the written instruction of a practitioner and the written consent of the parent.The document authorizing the administration of both prescribed medication and nonprescription drug products shall be kept on file in the administrative offices.Only medication in its original container; labeled with the date, if a prescription; the student's name; and the exact dosage will be administered.  Parents, or students authorized in writing by their practitioner and parents, may administer medication.No student is allowed to provide or sell any type of medication to another student.  Violations of this rule will be considered violations of Policy 5530   Drug Prevention and of the Student Code of Conduct.Medications will be administered and the instruction and consent forms will be maintained in accordance with the District Administrator's guidelines.
Meningococcal Disease Information
Meningococcal disease, a type of meningitis, is a bacterial infection that is potentially life-threatening. It is transmitted through direct contact with respiratory and/or oral secretionsfrom infected persons. Symptoms may include high fever, severe headache, stiff neck, nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light, confusion, exhaustion and/or a rash.The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend routine meningococcal immunization for adolescents at one of the following times; 11 to 12 year olds;15 years olds at high school entry; college freshmen living in dormitories. The meningococcal vaccine provides protectionagainst four of the five types of bacteria that cause meningococcal disease. Immunization is the most effective way to prevent this very serious disease.For more information, please go to your healthcare provider, your local public health department, or the school nurses, Jessica Wiesman and Heather Demerath at Extension 8108.
Notification of Locker Searches
The school provides a locker for the convenience of the student.The locker assigned to a student is the property of the School District. At no time does the District relinquish its exclusive control of such lockers. A locker may be searched as determined necessary or appropriate without notice, withoutstudent consent, and without a search warrant. The search may be conducted by the district administrator, a building principal, an associate principal, a police liaison officer, fireman, or a school employee or agent designated by thedistrict administrator or building principal. Any unauthorized item found in the locker may be removed. Items removed from the locker may be held by the school for return to the parent(s)/guardian of the student or retained for disciplinary proceedings, or turned over to law enforcement officials. The adult student or parent/guardian of a minor student shall benotified of items removed from the locker and turned over to law enforcement officials.The District shall include a copy of this policy in the student handbook that is distributed annually to each student enrolled in the District. 
Use or Possession of Electronic Community Devices
(POLICY #5136)It is the policy of the Shawano School District to restrict the use of personal cell phones and other electronic equipment.  Students are expected to keep the device turned off and out of sight during the academic day and in other situations where the use is prohibited or distracting.The Board recognizes that our electronic communications system (network) will allow unprecedented opportunities for students, to communicate, learn access and publish information.  The Board believes that the resources available through this network and the skills that students will develop in using it are of significant value in the learning process and success in the future.  These new opportunities also pose many new challenges including, but not limited to, access for all students, age-level appropriateness of material, security and cost of maintaining systems.  The District will endeavor to make certain that these concerns are appropriately addressed, but cannot ensure that problems will not arise.
Pupil Nondiscrimination Self Evaluation Report - June 2017
Recruiter Access to Students Records
Districts receiving federal education funds are required to notify parents of secondary school students:1. That a secondary school student or the parent of the student may request that the student?s name, address and telephone listing not be released to military recruiters or institutions of higher education without prior written parental or student consent; and2. That the district must comply with such request.School districts receiving federal education funds are required to provide, on request made by military recruiters or an institution of higher education, access to secondary school students? names, addresses and telephone listings unlessaccess to such information has been restricted by the secondary school student or the student?s parents as outlined above. Federal guidelines issued to implement this requirement state that if a school district does not designate student names, addresses and/or telephone listings as directory data it must still provide all three items to military recruiters and institutions of higher education upon request.
School Performance Report
The School Performance Report encompasses a wealth of information on school and district performance, plus Student achievement. The Wisconsin School Performance Report (SPR) was created in 1991 with the passage of State Statute 115.38. The 1991-92 school year was the first year for implementing the State-wide School Performance Report. The School Performance Report serves as our state?s annualpublic school report card and represents the mostcomprehensive resource for data on school performance and student achievement. Each report gives information pertinent to the Shawano School District compared to State of Wisconsin totals. You may refer to the Wisconsin DPI Website for complete comparison of all Wisconsin Schools. Please go to https://apps2.dpi.wi.gov/sdpr/spr.action to review the Shawano School District?s School Performance Report.
Screening and Evaluation of Possible Special Needs Students
The Shawano School District provides evaluations and special services to those students identified as handicapped in accordance with the state and federal guidelines. Each child between birth to 21 years of age is entitled to screening for, and evaluation of, suspected handicapping conditions. Theseservices are at no cost to the parents or student identified. Child Find days are scheduled each school year. In addition, screening of other students will be done at parental request.Requests can be made by contacting the building principal or by contacting Karen Smith, Director of Pupil Services, 526-3194, extension 8040.
Special Needs Voucher Program
Beginning with the 2016-2017 school year, the State will create a special education voucher program. For details, see the Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction Summary2015 Act 55 http://dpi.wi.gov/sites/default/files/imce/policybudget/pdf/Final%20Act%2055%202015-17%20budget%20summary_Sept8.pdf
Student Religious Accommodations
The Board recognizes that reasonable accommodations with regard to examinations and other academic requirements may have to be made from time to time because of a student?ssincerely held religious beliefs. Parents/guardians may make requests to the building principal. The requests will be judgedindividually, based upon state and federal guidelines. Any questions may be directed to the District Administrator, 218 County Road B, Shawano, Wisconsin 54166 or call 715-526-3194.
Suicide Prevention - Policy 5350
The Shawano School District recognizes that adolescent students undergo stresses of development and personal growth. To use suicide as a solution is a tragedy. For moreinformation about suicide prevention contact: American Foundation for suicide (www.afsp.org), Suicide Prevention Resource Center (www.sprc.org), Mental Health America ofWisconsin (www.mhawiconsin.org), Helping Others Prevent/Educate about Suicide(www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org)
Title I Program - Policy 2261
School districts that receive federal Title 1 program funds are required to notify parents of their district's parent involvement policy in an understandable and uniform format and, to theextent practicable, in a language the parents can understand. Schools receiving Title 1 funds are also required to notify parents at the beginning of the school year that they may request and obtain information regarding:1. The professional qualifications of their child?sclassroom teachers, including the following: (a)whether the teacher has met state licensing criteria for the grade level(s) and subject area(s)taught; (b) whether the teacher is teaching underemergency or provisional status through which state licensing criteria have been waived; and (c) the undergraduate degree major of the teacher, and any graduate certification or degreeheld by the teacher including the field of discipline of the certification or degree.2. The professional qualifications of paraprofessionals providing instructional-related services to their child.The above notifications must be given to the parents of each student attending a school in the district that receives Title 1 funds, not just to the parents of students participating in the Title 1 program. Parents who request teacher and/orparaprofessional qualification information must be provided the information in a timely manner.In addition to the above notification, a school receiving Title 1 funds must:* Notify parents if their child is assigned to, or taught for four or more consecutive weeks by a teacher(s) who is not ?highly qualifies?. This provision applies to all teachers in a school that receives Title 1 funds, including substitute teachers, not just those who work in Title 1 programs.* Provide each parent information on the achievement level of their child on each of the state academic assessments as soon as is practicable possible after the assessment is taken.In the case of a school identified for school improvement, for corrective action or for restructuring, a district must notify theparents of all students enrolled in school of their option to transfer to another public school served by the district. This notification must be given at least 14 days before the start of the school year. The district must also notify parents of eligible students of the availability of supplemental education services in a manner that is clearly distinguishable from other school improvement information that parents receive. The notice must inform parents of the benefits of supplementaleducation services and indicate providers who are able to students with disabilities or limited English proficient students.http://www.boarddocs.com/wi/shaw/Board.nsf/Public?open&id=policies#
Youth Options - Policy 2271
The Shawano School District permits any 11th or 12th grade student who is in good standing to enroll in a Wisconsin institute of higher education for the purpose of taking one or more nonsectarian courses. The Youth Options program is outlined under Wisconsin State Statutes 118.55 and Chapter PI40. SSD will absorb the cost of non-comparable courses approved by the high school principal up to a maximum of 18 credits during a student?s lifetime of eligibility.
Created with CMS4Schools
Shawano School District
218 County Road B, Shawano, WI 54166
Phone: 715 526-3194 | Fax: 715 526-6072
Email
Copyright © 2017 Shawano School District. All Rights Reserved.