Two Dimensions Preparatory Academy
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
Our District
Message from the Director
School History
Mission and Vision
Board of Directors
District Reporting
Photo Album
Staff Directory
Directions
Links
Video Gallery
Admissions
Enrollment Process
Admission Requirement
Lottery Information
Lottery Application
Parents
Academic Calendar
Attendance Policy
Dress Code
School Supply List
Meal Menu
Veterans
Corsicana
Vickery
Parent/Student Handbook
Human Resources
Teacher Qualifications
Paraprofessional Qualifications
Benefits
Job Postings
Apply
Staff Handbook
Forms
Contact Us
District Administrators
Campus Administrators
Teacher/Staff Directory
Request More Information
Campus Locations
 Google+
 Facebook
 Twitter
Search
Attendance Policy
Absence in General 
When a student must be absent from school, parents are asked to call the school each day the student will be absent.  Upon returning to school, the student must bring a note, signed by the parent, which describes the reason for the absence.  A note signed by the student, even with the parent’s permission, will not be accepted.  Notes must be received within three school days of the absence, or the absence will be unexcused. 
Because excessive absences are considered truancy under state law, the school reserves the right to take extreme absence cases to court. 
Types of Absences 
Absences from school shall be of two types, excused and unexcused. Students and parents should read this section carefully to understand the school’s expectations.  Students and parents should also be aware of the school’s policy regarding homework, quizzes, and tests following an absence.   
Excused Absences 
An absence will be considered excused if the absence is for one or more of the following reasons:    
Absences approved by the Principal in advance. 
Activities related to obtaining United States citizenship.
Attending a required court appearance.
Documented health care appointments, if the student begins classes or returns to school on the same day as the appointment. 
Emergency medical or dental attention. 
Family emergency, such as serious illness or death/funeral in the student’s immediate family (the student’s parent, sibling, and/or grandparent).
Observance of religious holy days that require the student’s participation;
Participation in school sponsored activities. 
Personal illnesses that do not exceed three consecutive days.  Illnesses that extend beyond three  days will require a doctor’s note. 
Quarantine. 
Required screening, diagnosis, and treatment for Medicaid-eligible students. 
Weather or road conditions making travel dangerous.  
If a student misses class for health reasons, or for attending court appearances or observances of religions holy days, the parent is required to provide an original note from a professional physician, clergyman, or court order explaining the absence.  A note from a parent or guardian is not acceptable for an excused absence.  
The school will also excuse a student from attending school for travel under the following circumstances:  
Appearing at a governmental office to complete paperwork required in connection with the student’s application for United States citizenship; 
Attending a required court appearance;
Observing religious holy days; or
Taking part in a United States naturalization oath ceremony. 
Any student participating in an activity listed above will be  allowed one day’s excused absence for travelling to the activity and one day’s  excused absence for returning from the activity. 
Unexcused Absences 
Any absence not listed above will be considered an unexcused absence.  Examples of unexcused absences include, but are not limited to truancy, car problems, and family related problems, missing a designated ride, over-sleeping, traffic or transportation problems, conflict with medical insurance, serious illness or death/funeral of student’s non-immediate family, failure to bring a written note following an absence, leaving school without the permission of the Principal or other administrator, and vacations.  
Reporting Absences 
Parents must contact the school attendance office when a student is absent. 
Veterans Campus Ms. F. Bickham 281-227-4700 ext. 4707
Vickery Campus Mrs. S. Whittaker 281-227-4700  ext. 4708
Corsicana Campus Ms. M. Abernathy 281-227-4700 ext. 4709
Perfect Attendance Incentives 
The school is committed to improving student attendance and rewarding students with perfect attendance for their accomplishments.  Students who arrive to school on time and have perfect attendance during a six-week period will be recognized and awarded.
Tardiness
The school day begins promptly at 7:30 a.m.  Students must be in their classroom by 7:30 a.m. to begin the day’s activities.  Students arriving after 7:30 a.m. are tardy and the student’s parent must sign in at the front office. Tardy students must have a tardy slip to enter the classroom. 
Parents will be notified when a student is tardy three times within a six-week period.  A second notification will be sent if the child is tardy four or more times within a six-week period. After a student has accumulated four tardies within a six-week period, the student will be required to attend one After School Detention session.
Academic Calendar
									Attendance Policy								
Dress Code
Parent/Student Handbook
School Supply List
Staff
ATTENDANCE MINUTES LETTER
Two Dimensions Preparatory Academy12121 Veterans Memorial Drive, Houston, TX 77067
Phone:(281) 227-4700
Veterans Campus
Corsicana Campus
Vickery Campus
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
Select Language
​
▼
Original text
Contribute a better translation