Two Dimensions Preparatory Academy
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
Our District
Message from the Director
School History
Mission and Vision
Board of Directors
District Reporting
Photo Album
Staff Directory
Directions
Links
Video Gallery
Admissions
Enrollment Process
Admission Requirement
Lottery Information
Lottery Application
Parents
Academic Calendar
Attendance Policy
Dress Code
School Supply List
Meal Menu
Veterans
Corsicana
Vickery
Parent/Student Handbook
Human Resources
Teacher Qualifications
Paraprofessional Qualifications
Benefits
Job Postings
Apply
Staff Handbook
Forms
Contact Us
District Administrators
Campus Administrators
Teacher/Staff Directory
Request More Information
Campus Locations
 Google+
 Facebook
 Twitter
Search
Dress Code
GUIDELINES FOR STUDENT DRESS AND GROOMING
TDPACS dress code is established to teach grooming and hygiene, instill discipline, prevent disruptive behavior, avoid safety hazards and teach respect for authority.
Appropriate student dress and grooming are also important factors in the safe and orderly operation of the schools. Each student's appearance should reflect a positive image of the school and contribute to a distraction-free learning environment. Our district values and needs the support of parents in upholding the district and campus dress and grooming guidelines.
All students are required to adhere to the district dress and grooming guidelines, as well as to any additional guidelines developed and approved for the campus. Parents are expected to be knowledgeable and supportive of the dress and grooming guidelines.
OFFICIAL SCHOOL UNIFORM
TDPACS has a designated uniform. The uniform should be Official School Uniform. The uniform is as followed:
Boys and Girls Uniform (Preschool – 5th Grade)
White or pale yellow polo shirt w/school patch (on left side), navy or khaki bottoms, sock (white or navy), and a belt in the colors of black, navy, or brown must be worn Monday through Friday, with the exception of the Friday attire.
Shoes are navy, black, white or brown only.
Friday Attire
School T-shirt and blue jeans (only permitted on Friday’s and Field Trip days).
On scheduled P.E. days, girls are required to wear shorts under their jumper, dress, or skirt.
Students are NOT permitted to wear neck or bow ties, chains, clothing that are tight, loose, revealing, sagging, or short. Examples of unacceptable clothing according to this guideline include, but are not limited to: jogging shorts, spandex shorts, biker shorts or tights, and mini-skirts.
There should be no lace, ruffles, zippers, emblems, or designs of any kind (except school patch) visible on the polo shirts.
Students are prohibited from wearing garments that sag below the waistline. Pants or shorts must be fitted at the waist and in the crotch, not oversized or baggy, and hemmed or cuffed at the bottom. Pant legs should be no wider than the length of the shoe. Students are encouraged to wear belts with garments.
Students are prohibited from wearing tear away type apparel, hunting or military camouflage apparel, dusters, overcoats, and trench coats.
All garments including shorts, skirts and dresses must be appropriate and modest in length. All of these garments must be at least knee length or longer.
Students cannot wear garments with visual or written messages that are likely to cause a material or substantial disruption to the school environment. Examples of such prohibited visual or written messages include, but are not limited to: drugs, alcohol, tobacco, weapons, violence, vulgar or obscene language or images, and/or insults to race, religion, gender, or ethnicity.
A student is prohibited from wearing any form of dress or accessories identifying him or her with a gang or cult or symbolizing the beliefs of such a group.
Students must wear appropriate underclothing.
Backpacks should not distract from or interfere with the learning environment or present a safety or health hazard.
Students participating in school-related activities, such as extracurricular or UIL activities or other special functions, may have a different dress or grooming code required by the sponsor, coach, or administration.
Cosmetics
Noisy, distracting, flashy, or excessive jewelry or accessories, including wallet chains, are prohibited. Examples include, but are not limited to: medallions, big chains or ropes with emblems attached, long chain that extend below the mid section of the body, etc). Earrings in pierced ears are allowed for girls only, but all other body piercing jewelry is strictly prohibited. Body tattoos of any kind are prohibited. Glitter on any part of the body is also not permitted.
Girls are not allowed to wear fake/false nails or nail tips, make-up (foundation, blush, eye shadow, eyeliner, lip liner, lipstick, mascara, etc), or lip-gloss with glitter and/or color appearance.
Perfume or cologne is permitted provided it is used at a minimum and does not cause a distraction to students (physically or medically) or the education process.
Compliance with these guidelines is expected every day, including the first day of school. Students who are new to the campus, or students with extenuating circumstances, will be expected to be in compliance after a reasonable grace period, provided the grace period is approved by the principal. Students at all campuses are expected to follow the appropriate district dress and grooming guidelines. No Exceptions!
Hair
The student's hair style/color and makeup must not distract from or interfere with the learning and school environment. Colored hair other than the student’s natural hair color is prohibited. Hair must be kept well groomed, neat, and clean at all times.
No type of head covering is to be worn. Exceptions would be a cap or hat that is part of a uniform worn at a school activity or a head covering worn for religious or medical purposes. Examples of prohibited head covering according to the guidelines include, but are not limited to: scarves, hats, caps, sweatbands and bandanas.
Shoes
Shoes should not detract from or interfere with the learning environment or present a safety or health hazard. Only tennis shoes or closed toed shoes are allowed. Shoe or tennis color should only be white, navy, or black. Students are not permitted to wear boots or army type shoes or boots. Shoestrings must be reasonable in size and match the color of the shoes being worn. Oversized, flashy, and loud colored shoestrings are prohibited.
Dress/Grooming Violations
It is the responsibility of all students to adhere to the dress and grooming code. Students who come to school in violation of the district and/or campus dress code will not be permitted to enter class. Parents will be asked to bring appropriate attire to school to assist in correcting the violation or take the student home until the proper uniform is composed. School officials may use other appropriate consequences as designated in the Code of Conduct. Students or parents who have a question about the appropriateness of an item should discuss the specific issue with the appropriate staff member before wearing the item.
Academic Calendar
Attendance Policy
									Dress Code								
Parent/Student Handbook
School Supply List
Staff
Two Dimensions Preparatory Academy12121 Veterans Memorial Drive, Houston, TX 77067
Phone:(281) 227-4700
Veterans Campus
Corsicana Campus
Vickery Campus
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
Select Language
​
▼
Original text
Contribute a better translation