Original text
Contribute a better translation
Parent Connect
Donate
Contact
Careers
Calendar
Select Language
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chichewa
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Corsican
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Frisian
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hawaiian
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Khmer
Korean
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Luxembourgish
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Myanmar (Burmese)
Nepali
Norwegian
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Samoan
Scots Gaelic
Serbian
Sesotho
Shona
Sindhi
Sinhala
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Sundanese
Swahili
Swedish
Tajik
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Welsh
Xhosa
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
  Powered by 
Translate
Toggle navigation                                    
About Us 
Charter Schools
About Southwest Schools
History
Mission
Accountability
Professional Learning
Instructional Technology
Administration
Leadership
Board of Directors
Administrative Staff Directory
Departments
Business Office
Child Nutrition Program
College & Career Readiness
Community Relations
Curriculum
E-Colors
Human Resources
Information Technology
Learning Development
Safety/Security
Special Education
Student Support Services
Careers
Contact
FAQ
Our Schools 
Bissonnet Elementary
Mangum Elementary
Discovery Middle School
Empowerment High School
Phoenix School
Young Learners
Programs
Parents/Students 
District Calendar
Parent Connect
School Store
Student/Parent Handbook
Student Creed
Child Nutrition Program
Immunization Requirements
Be a Volunteer
Student Resources
Homework Resources
Scholarships
Wellness Policy
Sponsors/Volunteers 
Why Get Involved
Our Sponsors
How to Donate
Financial Support
Volunteer
Other Opportunities
FAQ
FAQ
What is the history of Southwest Schools?
In 1998, Southwest Schools received approval from the State Board of Education to operate Southwest Schools as a state-approved charter school. In its first year, Southwest Schools had 250 students. Within one semester, students from across Houston recognized the unique benefits of Southwest Schools, doubling the enrollment.
Today, Southwest Schools has a high school, middle school, and two elementary campuses. Southwest Schools also provides educational services to residential treatment facilities in the greater Houston area and Pre-K satellite campuses
What is a charter school?
Open-enrollment charter schools are free public schools that have the flexibility to adapt to the educational needs of individual students. Open-enrollment charter schools vary in mission and model, serving a wide range of students, many with needs beyond the one-size-fits-all traditional public school. Often, these charter schools provide a personalized learning environment that promotes greater student achievement. Although charter schools have some autonomy, they still must meet the rigorous academic standards dictated by the state for all public schools. On charter campuses, school leaders are permitted more freedom in managing their school, allowing them to respond in the best interest of both parents and students. Teachers at charter schools are encouraged to structure lessons to the specific needs of their students. Some charter schools even provide curriculum that specializes in a certain field such as the arts, mathematics or science. Others provide a more efficient, general education based on the educational model set forth in the charter
Are all Southwest Schools charter schools?
Yes. There are currently 5 Southwest schools in Texas. All of these Southwest schools are public charter schools.
Who attends Southwest Schools?
Southwest Schools are open-enrollment public schools, serving primarily low-income and minority students.
What is Southwest Schools curriculum?
Southwest Schools follows the Texas Essential for Knowledge and Skills (TEKS) curriculum. While we always adhere to our overarching mission, vision and commitments, our teaching philosophy centers around Education through Exploration.  In delivering on that philosophy our entire staff of teachers and administrators operate with the goal to Innovate, Inspire and Transform.
Southwest Schools is also a S.T.E.A.M. organization in which practices teaching across all disciplines including math, the sciences and fine arts.
Our mission is to prepare college and career-ready students for post-secondary success.
Questions about enrolling in Southwest Schools
How does enrollment work at Southwest Schools?
Are there admission requirements at Southwest Schools?
Does it matter where I live?  Am I zoned correctly?
How does Southwest Schools recruit students?
How can I enroll my child in a SW school?
Southwest schools are tuition-free, open-enrollment public schools. Students are accepted regardless of background or academic record, regardless of where he or she lives, on a first-come, first-served basis. If more students apply than spaces are available, students are placed on a waiting list. To enroll your child in Southwest Schools, please contact the school in your community directly by phone or email.
Questions about teaching at Southwest Schools
What is the experience and background of the typical Southwest Schools teacher?
Southwest teachers are those who teach because they love it and are truly the best school teachers (public or private) in the state.  Southwest teachers are a diverse group, including experienced teachers who have worked in schools teaching underserved students, new teachers who are just beginning their careers and career changers who are entering the classroom after succeeding in another profession.
What makes teaching at Southwest Schools unique?
Teaching is inherently a rewarding and life changing career.  Teaching at Southwest is even more so due to the immediate, direct and daily impact a teacher has on his or her students.  Teachers also have flexibility to be innovate in their instruction technique and modify learning methods based on the dynamics in each of their individual classrooms.  Talk to one of the teachers at Southwest about their career and you will understand why it’s the only place they will ever want to work.
What are the requirements for teaching at Southwest Schools?
Teachers are required to have Bachelor’s degree and be Certified/Highly Qualified in their field of instruction.  We look for teachers who have teaching experience, preferably in a setting that serves students who come from an at-risk environment.  Because of the demographics of our student population, it is helpful to be bilingual in English and Spanish.
Personal characteristics we look for include being innovative, eager to make a difference, and a desire for continual and lifelong education of their own.
How can teachers apply?
Teachers can apply in person at any of our campuses or may visit our Careers website at swschools.org.
Questions about how Southwest Schools is funded
How are Southwest Schools funded?
Charter schools receive state funds based on the average daily attendance of students (same as traditional public schools); however, they do not receive funds from local tax revenue and the majority, including Texas charters, do not receive state facilities funding.  Southwest Schools rely on partnerships and support from the community and charitable organizations to expand programs and provide the best education possible for our students.
Are Southwest Schools more expensive to operate than regular public schools?
No, in-fact, because there is more flexibility on how we select facilities and allocate budget, we typically run leaner that the traditional public school.
Other questions about Southwest Schools
 How many students stay at Southwest Schools from year to year?
The year-over-year turnover rate at most Southwest Schools is very low.  Our students, parents, faculty and staff stay because they believe in the program, the progress and the benefit for all.
Does Southwest Schools keep track of its alumni who go on to college?
Yes, Southwest Schools has a 100% graduation rate and an over 90% college acceptance rate.  While not all students elect to attend a traditional college, career success via internships and work-school programs are very high.
Resources
Donate Online
Volunteer Opportunities
Partners in Education
Our Profile
Our Schools
ENROLL NOW
CALENDAR
                                Quick Links                            
                        CONTACT US  |  ADMINISTRATION BUILDING: 3333 BERING DRIVE, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77057
                        © 2013-2014 Southwest School. All rights reserved. 
Terms of User and Privacy Statement