Base URL: www.focuslearn.org
Parent URL: https://www.focuslearn.org
File URL: HTTPS://24FBBAF2-88BB-49FE-BE1A-AA8A455D8091.FILESUSR.COM/UGD/77A248_812FFA9343F14B598C11352705B2E3AF.PDF
 

 
 
 
 
 
Subject: College Credit Plus 
 
Dear Parents, 
 
If your student is thinking about going to college after high school, the Ohio 
Department of Education is now offering a free, new program for high school 
students called College Credit Plus. This program gives students in grades 7-12 the 
chance to earn college credit from any Ohio public college or participating private 
college while earning high school credit for each college course, if the student 
qualifies academically. Your student can earn anywhere from a few college credits to 
a year’s worth while still in high school. 
  
The first step is to submit to your high school a “notice of intent to participate” 
which is a form that can be provided by your Academic Adviser or found 
at www.ohiohighered.org/ccp under “Forms.” Once their intent is received by us, 
your student must then apply and be admitted to the participating college or 
university of their choice. Ask them for College Credit Plus application forms, 
instructions and a list of criteria they will use to determine if your child is college-
ready for admission to that institution. Conversations with the Academic Adviser 
can help them decide which of the many available college courses would match his 
or her needs and plans. 
  
Upon receipt of a notice from the college or university stating that your student is 
admitted to the program, you must then register for a SAFE account (using a 
parent’s name on behalf of the student) with the Ohio Department of Education 
at https://safe.ode.state.oh.us/portal. 
  
The SAFE account is used to apply for state funding, which is required for your 
student’s College Credit Plus participation. Your funding application must include 
your student’s acceptance letter from the college or university. 
  
In the meantime, have your student contact his or her Academic Adviser to talk 
about whether College Credit Plus might be a good fit for their future. Your Adviser 
will also be providing more in-depth information at our upcoming College Fairs.  

 

Sincerely, 
 
Your Academic Advisers 
 

 



