Home
About Us
Apply to WAIS
Calendars & Resources
Daily Schedule
Dress Code
Grading Periods
Guthrie Schedule
Lunch Menu
Nutrition Services
Testing Calendars
Stay Connected
WAIS & SBISD Policies
District Handbook
English
Spanish
WAIS Supplement
Assessment Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Honesty, Writing & Research
Homework/Late Work Policy
IB MYP Regulations
Language Policy
Special Needs Policy
Campus Plans & Reports - Middle School
Campus Plans & Reports - High School
Campus Informational Sheet 
File A "Lost or Stolen" Report 
IB Programme
IB Overview
IB Learner Profile
Middle Years Programme
Arts
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Individuals & Societies
Mathematics
Physical & Health Education
Sciences
Design
Personal Project
Career-related Programme
IB CP Language Development
IB CP Reflective Project
Diploma Programme
CAS
Students
Activities
List of Clubs 2016-17
Academic Clubs
NJHS
Model United Nations
Interact
Student Council
Fine Arts
WAIS Theatre
Advanced Choir
Sports Clubs
Tennis Club
Grappling Club
Boys Lacrosse
Ultimate Club
After-School Clubs
Art Crew
Odyssey of the Mind
Robotics Club
Young Life
Westchester Drama Club
Wais Knitting Club
The League of Champions
Contests and Competitions
Program of Studies - High School
Program of Studies - Middle School
Useful Links
Family Access
Library Resources
myDigital Counselor
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Miacis - WAIS Yearbook
FACULTY
Leadership
Admissions
Lottery 
Announcements
Report cards/ Grading
Transcripts
Withdrawal 
Graduation
Verification of Enrollment (TDL Permits & Licenses)
Rank Info
Administrators
Valerie Muniz- Director
Alexia Greiner- Assistant Director
Pamela Redd- Assistant Director
Counselors
Beverly Martin
Tricia Miller
Steven Schlabach
Karren Sims
Anonymous Reporting
Coordinators
Cheryl Wegscheid- IB MYP
Sara Sebesta-Camano- IBCC
Valerie Harelson- IB DP
Intervention Specialist
Jeremy Reese
Attendance- Brenda Avalos
Library- Kelly Kiehnhoff
Nurse- Charlene Wilson
Grade Levels
6th Grade
7th Grade
8th Grade
9th Grade
Departments
Arts
Design (& Tech)
Individuals & Societies
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Mathematics
Physical & Health
Sciences
How do I find My Teachers?
Parents
Information for Incoming Students
Summer Reading & Math Packets
Summer Programs
Counselors Corner
Family Access
Guides for Parents
Digital Citizenship
English
Spanish (Convivencia Digital)
IB MYP Regulations
Student Success
English
Spanish
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Teen Dating Violence Prevention
WAIS PTA
Useful Links
Turnitin.com
Parents.com
ParentSmart.com
FAQ
Login
You are here: 
Home
Privacy Statement
WAIS is committed to protecting your privacy and developing technology        that gives you the most powerful and safe online experience. This Statement of Privacy        applies to the WAIS Web site and governs data collection and usage.        By using the WAIS website, you consent to the data practices described        in this statement.
Collection of your Personal Information
WAIS collects personally identifiable information, such as your e-mail        address, name, home or work address or telephone number. WAIS also        collects anonymous demographic information, which is not unique to you, such as        your ZIP code, age, gender, preferences, interests and favorites.
There is also information about your computer hardware and software that is automatically        collected by WAIS. This information can include: your IP address,        browser type, domain names, access times and referring Web site addresses. This        information is used by WAIS for the operation of the service, to        maintain quality of the service, and to provide general statistics regarding use        of the WAIS Web site.
Please keep in mind that if you directly disclose personally identifiable information        or personally sensitive data through WAIS public message boards,        this information may be collected and used by others. Note: WAIS        does not read any of your private online communications.
WAIS encourages you to review the privacy statements of Web sites        you choose to link to from WAIS so that you can understand how those        Web sites collect, use and share your information. WAIS is not responsible        for the privacy statements or other content on Web sites outside of the WAIS        and WAIS family of Web sites.
Use of your Personal Information
WAIS collects and uses your personal information to operate the WAIS        Web site and deliver the services you have requested. WAIS also uses        your personally identifiable information to inform you of other products or services        available from WAIS and its affiliates. WAIS may also        contact you via surveys to conduct research about your opinion of current services        or of potential new services that may be offered.
WAIS does not sell, rent or lease its customer lists to third parties.        WAIS may, from time to time, contact you on behalf of external business        partners about a particular offering that may be of interest to you. In those cases,        your unique personally identifiable information (e-mail, name, address, telephone        number) is not transferred to the third party. In addition, WAIS        may share data with trusted partners to help us perform statistical analysis, send        you email or postal mail, provide customer support, or arrange for deliveries. All        such third parties are prohibited from using your personal information except to        provide these services to WAIS, and they are required to maintain        the confidentiality of your information.
WAIS does not use or disclose sensitive personal information, such        as race, religion, or political affiliations, without your explicit consent.
WAIS keeps track of the Web sites and pages our customers visit within        WAIS, in order to determine what WAIS services are        the most popular. This data is used to deliver customized content and advertising        within WAIS to customers whose behavior indicates that they are interested        in a particular subject area.
WAIS Web sites will disclose your personal information, without notice,        only if required to do so by law or in the good faith belief that such action is        necessary to: (a) conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process        served on WAIS or the site; (b) protect and defend the rights or        property of WAIS; and, (c) act under exigent circumstances to protect        the personal safety of users of WAIS, or the public.
Use of Cookies
The WAIS Web site use "cookies" to help you personalize your online        experience. A cookie is a text file that is placed on your hard disk by a Web page        server. Cookies cannot be used to run programs or deliver viruses to your computer.        Cookies are uniquely assigned to you, and can only be read by a web server in the        domain that issued the cookie to you.
One of the primary purposes of cookies is to provide a convenience feature to save        you time. The purpose of a cookie is to tell the Web server that you have returned        to a specific page. For example, if you personalize WAIS pages, or        register with WAIS site or services, a cookie helps WAIS        to recall your specific information on subsequent visits. This simplifies the process        of recording your personal information, such as billing addresses, shipping addresses,        and so on. When you return to the same WAIS Web site, the information        you previously provided can be retrieved, so you can easily use the WAIS        features that you customized.
You have the ability to accept or decline cookies. Most Web browsers automatically        accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies        if you prefer. If you choose to decline cookies, you may not be able to fully experience        the interactive features of the WAIS services or Web sites you visit.
Security of your Personal Information
WAIS secures your personal information from unauthorized access,        use or disclosure. WAIS secures the personally identifiable information        you provide on computer servers in a controlled, secure environment, protected from        unauthorized access, use or disclosure. When personal information (such as a credit        card number) is transmitted to other Web sites, it is protected through the use        of encryption, such as the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol.
Changes to this Statement
WAIS will occasionally update this Statement of Privacy to reflectcompany and customer feedback. WAIS encourages you to periodically         review this Statement to be informed of how WAIS is protecting your        information.
Contact Information
WAIS welcomes your comments regarding this Statement of Privacy.        If you believe that WAIS has not adhered to this Statement, please        contact WAIS at 
shaun.wegscheid@springbranchisd.com
.        We will use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly determine and remedy the        problem.
Home
 | 
Students
 | 
FAQ
 | 
Terms Of Use
 | 
Privacy Statement