Home
About Us
Apply to WAIS
Calendars & Resources
Daily Schedule
Dress Code
Grading Periods
Guthrie Schedule
Lunch Menu
Nutrition Services
Testing Calendars
Stay Connected
WAIS & SBISD Policies
District Handbook
English
Spanish
WAIS Supplement
Assessment Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Honesty, Writing & Research
Homework/Late Work Policy
IB MYP Regulations
Language Policy
Special Needs Policy
Campus Plans & Reports - Middle School
Campus Plans & Reports - High School
Campus Informational Sheet 
File A "Lost or Stolen" Report 
IB Programme
IB Overview
IB Learner Profile
Middle Years Programme
Arts
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Individuals & Societies
Mathematics
Physical & Health Education
Sciences
Design
Personal Project
Career-related Programme
IB CP Language Development
IB CP Reflective Project
Diploma Programme
CAS
Students
Activities
List of Clubs 2016-17
Academic Clubs
NJHS
Model United Nations
Interact
Student Council
Fine Arts
WAIS Theatre
Advanced Choir
Sports Clubs
Tennis Club
Grappling Club
Boys Lacrosse
Ultimate Club
After-School Clubs
Art Crew
Odyssey of the Mind
Robotics Club
Young Life
Westchester Drama Club
Wais Knitting Club
The League of Champions
Contests and Competitions
Program of Studies - High School
Program of Studies - Middle School
Useful Links
Family Access
Library Resources
myDigital Counselor
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Miacis - WAIS Yearbook
FACULTY
Leadership
Admissions
Lottery 
Announcements
Report cards/ Grading
Transcripts
Withdrawal 
Graduation
Verification of Enrollment (TDL Permits & Licenses)
Rank Info
Administrators
Valerie Muniz- Director
Alexia Greiner- Assistant Director
Pamela Redd- Assistant Director
Counselors
Beverly Martin
Tricia Miller
Steven Schlabach
Karren Sims
Anonymous Reporting
Coordinators
Cheryl Wegscheid- IB MYP
Sara Sebesta-Camano- IBCC
Valerie Harelson- IB DP
Intervention Specialist
Jeremy Reese
Attendance- Brenda Avalos
Library- Kelly Kiehnhoff
Nurse- Charlene Wilson
Grade Levels
6th Grade
7th Grade
8th Grade
9th Grade
Departments
Arts
Design (& Tech)
Individuals & Societies
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Mathematics
Physical & Health
Sciences
How do I find My Teachers?
Parents
Information for Incoming Students
Summer Reading & Math Packets
Summer Programs
Counselors Corner
Family Access
Guides for Parents
Digital Citizenship
English
Spanish (Convivencia Digital)
IB MYP Regulations
Student Success
English
Spanish
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Teen Dating Violence Prevention
WAIS PTA
Useful Links
Turnitin.com
Parents.com
ParentSmart.com
FAQ
Login
You are here: 
IB Programme > 
Middle Years Programme
IB MYP Coordinator 
Cheryl Wegscheid
Information
Contact Information
Email:
cheryl.wegscheid@springbranchisd.com
About Me
I graduated from the University of Illinois with a Bachelor of Science and am a member of Phi Delta Kappa. My teaching certifications are: Technology Applications (K -12), Early Childhood, K-8 self-contained, English as a Second Language, and Gifted and Talented. Additional trainings I've attended include College Board Pre-AP teacher training for Middle School Science, Middle Years Programme International Baccalaureate training for Programme Coordinator, Design, Global Contexts, Physical Education, Technology and Hummanities.It is an honor to be in Who's Who Among America's Teachers, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th Editions which would not be possible without the precious students I've taught.
Print
MYP Subject Groups
Arts (Visual and Performing)
Language and Literature 
Language Aquisition (World Languages) 
Individuals and Societies
Mathematics 
Physical and Health Education 
Sciences
Design (Technology)
Print
Resources
IB Information for Parents
International Baccalaureate site
Middle Years Programme 
Westchester Academy for International Studies is an authorized IB World School for our Middle Years Programme in grades 6 through 10 since October 2013.
The IB Mission Statement
The International Baccalaureate aims to develop inquiring, knowledgeable and caring young people who help to create a better and more peaceful world through intercultural understanding and respect.
To this end the organization works with schools, governments and international organizations to develop challenging programmes of international education and rigorous assessment.
These programmes encourage students across the world to become active, compassionate and lifelong learners who understand that other people, with their differences, can also be right.
The Learner Profile is the IB Mission Statement in action.   The Learner Profile represents a set of ideals that give teachers, students, and community members a common purpose.  IB Learners strive to be 
inquirers, knowledgeable, thinkers, communicators, principled, open-minded, caring, risk-takers, balanced 
and reflective.
The IB Middle Years Programme
 IBO video about the IB Middle Years Programme
Middle Years Programme (MYP) is expressed through three fundamental concepts. These three concepts support and strengthen all areas of the curriculum are intercultural awareness, holistic learning, and communication. 
There are eight subject groups that surround Action, Service, Community Project, and Personal Project. The Personal Project is only completed in grade 10. These surround Approaches to Teaching, Global Contexts, Approaches to Learning, and Concepts which surround the learners at the very center. These are all supported by development of the ten characteristics of the Learner Profile. 
 For further information about the IB and its programmes, visit 
http://www.ibo.org
How does the IB define "international education"?
The International Baccalaureate® (IB) chooses to define "international education" according to the following criteria. 
Developing citizens of the world in relation to culture, language and learning to live together 
Building and reinforcing students' sense of identity and cultural awareness
Fostering students' recognition and development of universal human values
Stimulating curiosity and inquiry in order to foster a spirit of discovery and enjoyment of learning 
Equipping students with the skills to learn and acquire knowledge, individually or collaboratively, and to apply these skills and knowledge accordingly across a broad range of areas 
Providing international content while responding to local requirements and interests 
Encouraging diversity and flexibility in teaching methods 
Providing appropriate forms of assessment and international benchmarking
Instruction is based on an integration of the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS) and the MYP Objectives. Each subject group has a set guideline of target performance/ability by the end of 10th grade (MYP Level 5) called Prescribed Minimums. WAIS developed prescribed minimums for each grade level 6-9 in order to meet the 10th grade expectations. Also, students receive traditional % scores and an IB Achievement Level on unit work. MYP Achievement Levels reflect a student's demonstration of a MYP subject group objective(s). Students receive a Criterion Rubric that scaffolds demonstration of achievement based on a summative task. Achievement Levels are based on a scale of 0-8. Criterion  rubrics  are developed by IB and teachers often translate them into a task specifc rubric honoring the intent of the IB Criterion.
The Mission of Westchester Academy for International Studies is to provide a challenging and varied curriculum in which all students can succeed. The curriculum will develop an international awareness (consciousness) including a focus on international relations and international problem solving, to create a love of learning and emphasize good citizenship.
WAIS
Grading Scales 
Conversion
for
Achievement 
Levels
in MYP
0-8
Scale		
8		
100		
7		
93		
6		
88		
5		
82		
4		
77		
3		
71		
2		
65		
1		
60		
0 *		
50		
*This means the work cannot be scored using the criteria given. 	
If no work is turned in then a traditional 0% grade would be given.
MYP Curriculum Overviews
Arts MYP Brief
Design MYP Brief (Technology)
Individuals & Societies MYP Brief (Soc. St.)
Language Acqusition MYP Brief (World Languages)
Language and Literature MYP Brief 
Mathematics MYP Brief
Physical Health Educ. MYP Brief
Sciences MYP Brief
Print
IB & MYP Documents
Interdisciplinary Learning MYP Brief
General Regulations for Students & their Legal Guardians
Learner Profile in English
Learner Profile in French
Learner Profile in Spanish
MYP Brochure in English
MYP Brochure in Spanish
Print
Home
 | 
Students
 | 
FAQ
 | 
Terms Of Use
 | 
Privacy Statement