District Website
Elementary Schools
Middle Schools
High Schools
Family Access Login
Login
You are here: 
Home
Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not todisplay inline frames.
Skyward (Family Access)
Login - Skyward (Family Access)
Changing your Skyward (Family Access) Login, Password and Email
Parents, you are now able to change your login and password to whatever you like rather than the randomly generated
 login and
 password you received
 when you signed up. You can now also change the e-mail address that is stored in your Family Access account. 
To change your Skyward (Family Access) Login, Password and Email, use the following instructions:
English
 / 
Spanish
. 
Skyward (Family Access) Mobile App
This app is currently available through the Apple, Amazon and Google app stores and is compatible with Apple and Android mobile devices. 
Download app - Instructions >>
What is Skyward (Family Access)?
Skyward (Family Access) is a password-protected site that provides both parents and students access to course grades, homework, attendance, and other data.
How to Sign Up
Please contact your child’s school for more information on how to sign up for Skyward (Family Access).
When picking up your information at the school, you will complete a form, show your ID and provide a current email address.
If your children attend more than one Spring Branch School, you will only need to go to one campus.   
Skyward’s Family and Student Access - Students have their own login!
By using their student login, secondary students are now able to access information about their grades, attendance, and other basic information through Skyward’s Family and Student Access. Students will be able to track their progress and attendance along with parents but they will not have access to their sibling’s information. Most secondary students have already logged in to use the system from school to enter their course requests for next year.
Important Skyward (Family Access) Message
Parents/guardians are now able to view their student's report cards in Family Access.  The report cards will be available online 2 weeks after distribution for that grading period.  The link to the report cards will be under General Information-Report Cards. 
Skyward is rolling out a new look and additional features for Family Access. Some of the new features include:
Ability to view one or all of your children on one screen
More Language selections through Google Translator in Family Access
Improvements on the navigation bar
Easier access to attendance information
An updated calendar with the ability to color code items (attendance, assignments, test, etc.)
The ability to show only the current term
Additional Course information
As before parents can change their login and password for easy access
Click on the links below for a quick reference or a complete guide to the new look.
New Family Access Quick Reference Guide
New Family Access Guide
Where can I find Skyward (Family Access)?
            Parents and students can login to the Family Access Portal from their campus website or from the homepage of the SBISD District website.            
District Website
 | 
Elementary Schools
 | 
Middle Schools
 | 
High Schools
 | 
Family Access Login
 | 
Terms Of Use
 | 
Privacy Statement