Home
About Us
Apply to WAIS
Calendars & Resources
Daily Schedule
Dress Code
Grading Periods
Guthrie Schedule
Lunch Menu
Nutrition Services
Testing Calendars
Stay Connected
WAIS & SBISD Policies
District Handbook
English
Spanish
WAIS Supplement
Assessment Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Honesty, Writing & Research
Homework/Late Work Policy
IB MYP Regulations
Language Policy
Special Needs Policy
Campus Plans & Reports - Middle School
Campus Plans & Reports - High School
Campus Informational Sheet 
File A "Lost or Stolen" Report 
IB Programme
IB Overview
IB Learner Profile
Middle Years Programme
Arts
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Individuals & Societies
Mathematics
Physical & Health Education
Sciences
Design
Personal Project
Career-related Programme
IB CP Language Development
IB CP Reflective Project
Diploma Programme
CAS
Students
Activities
List of Clubs 2016-17
Academic Clubs
NJHS
Model United Nations
Interact
Student Council
Fine Arts
WAIS Theatre
Advanced Choir
Sports Clubs
Tennis Club
Grappling Club
Boys Lacrosse
Ultimate Club
After-School Clubs
Art Crew
Odyssey of the Mind
Robotics Club
Young Life
Westchester Drama Club
Wais Knitting Club
The League of Champions
Contests and Competitions
Program of Studies - High School
Program of Studies - Middle School
Useful Links
Family Access
Library Resources
myDigital Counselor
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Miacis - WAIS Yearbook
FACULTY
Leadership
Admissions
Lottery 
Announcements
Report cards/ Grading
Transcripts
Withdrawal 
Graduation
Verification of Enrollment (TDL Permits & Licenses)
Rank Info
Administrators
Valerie Muniz- Director
Alexia Greiner- Assistant Director
Pamela Redd- Assistant Director
Counselors
Beverly Martin
Tricia Miller
Steven Schlabach
Karren Sims
Anonymous Reporting
Coordinators
Cheryl Wegscheid- IB MYP
Sara Sebesta-Camano- IBCC
Valerie Harelson- IB DP
Intervention Specialist
Jeremy Reese
Attendance- Brenda Avalos
Library- Kelly Kiehnhoff
Nurse- Charlene Wilson
Grade Levels
6th Grade
7th Grade
8th Grade
9th Grade
Departments
Arts
Design (& Tech)
Individuals & Societies
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Mathematics
Physical & Health
Sciences
How do I find My Teachers?
Parents
Information for Incoming Students
Summer Reading & Math Packets
Summer Programs
Counselors Corner
Family Access
Guides for Parents
Digital Citizenship
English
Spanish (Convivencia Digital)
IB MYP Regulations
Student Success
English
Spanish
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Teen Dating Violence Prevention
WAIS PTA
Useful Links
Turnitin.com
Parents.com
ParentSmart.com
FAQ
Login
You are here: 
FACULTY > 
Nurse- Charlene Wilson
Resources
Chip/Medicaid
Dental- Harris County Hospital District Clinics
Dental- HCPHES Dental Clinic
Dental- University of Texas Dental Clinic
Dental- Summit Dental
Immunizations/Clinic- Blalock Medical Center
Immunizations/Clinic- Harris County Clinic
Imunizations/Clinic- Spring Branch Community Health Center
Resources- MAM (Memorial Assistance Ministeries)
Information
Contact Information
713-251-1825 Phone 
713-251-1825 Fax
About Me
Received a Bachelor of Science in Nursing from the University of Texas, Houston. 
Previously worked in surgery in Houston area hospitals for 10 years.
I have been a school nurse for 26 years
This is my 5th year at WAIS.
Marian Gary is my clinic assistant on Thursdays.
Print
Charlene Wilson, RN
When to keep your child home from school:
Fever of 100.0 F or greater is an indicator of a contagious illness and your child should remain home until the fever subsides without the benefit of a fever reducing medicine.
Sore throat accompanied by a fever or rash.
Diarrhea and/or vomiting.
Nasal or respiratory drainage that is thick, green, yellow or grey is a sign of infection.
Before entering
 7th grade, students must have a Tdap (within the last 5 years), 2nd Varicella and a Meningococcal vaccine. When you receive our request and if your student has already received the immunizations, PLEASE send us a copy so we can update our records. Please send a copy when they receive the immunizations if they have not had them already.
Meningitis Vaccine
Rising Senior Parents:
Your student will need to have a meningitis vaccine for college entrance in the Fall of 2017. Please check with your medical provider and make sure that your son or daughter has had at least 1 meningitis vaccine within the last 5 years. If they have not had a meningitis vaccine or if they had one more than 5 years ago, you should get this vaccine ASAP. I will mail requests home for those Juniors in need of a second meningitis vaccine in their last report card this school year.
Please provide vaccine documentation to the school clinic so that our records will be up to date. 
What is bacterial meningitis?
Bacterial meningitis is an inflammation of the membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The illness can progress rapidly and cause death or permanent disabilities, such as hearing loss, brain damage, or loss of limbs. A descriptive video explaining bacterial meningitis can be viewed at 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h2-U1S74OH0
Studies suggest that college students have a higher risk of contracting the illness because they live and work in close proximity. More information is available online at 
www.cdc.gov/meningitis
 .
Who needs the meningitis vaccine?
Students are required to show proof they have received the meningitis vaccine if they are less than 30 years old and are first time Texas college/university students.
CareVan will be at Spring Woods High School August 9, 2016; 4:00 - 6:30 to administer needed vaccines for school enrollment.
Spring Branch ISD Clinic Forms
Nonprescription (OTC) Medication Form
Prescription Medication Form
Special Healthcare Procedure Form (Nebulizer/Injections)
Student Held Epi-Pen Form
Student Held Inhaler Form
Print
Medications
Prescription and nonprescription medications may only be administered to students when parents/guardians have provided the medication from a recognized pharmacy, in the United States, in an appropriately labeled, original container and when the medication is in the original form as purchased or dispensed by a pharmacy in the United States or a physician licensed to practice in the United States. 
The 
Physician’s Statement for Administration of Prescription Medication is the designated district form for physician/parent request for administering prescription medication to students. This form MUST be signed by the prescribing physician before the medication may be given at school. 
The Parent’s Statement for Administration of Nonprescription Medication is the designated district form for a parent to request the administration of nonprescription medication to students. Any over the counter medication dosage exceeding the recommended dose on the label must be signed off by a physician on the Prescription medication form. All nonprescription / OTC (over the counter) medication must be appropriately labeled in the original container and not expired. This does include cough drops.
The Physician’s Statement for Administration of Special Health Care Services will be required when medication is to be administered by special procedure, e.g., nebulizer treatments, via body tubes, injectables. The appropriate procedure/protocol for the special service must be sent to the physician for his/her review. 
All statements for medication administration and special health care procedures must be renewed at the beginning of each school year. Student held inhaler and Epi-Pen forms are also availble above and must be signed by the prescribing physician, parent, and student.  These forms need to be in the clinic prior to the student carrying these medications to school. Medications must be picked up from the clinic by the last day of school. Any medications left will be disposed of properly. 
Herbals, home remedies, and dietary supplements do not generally come with a United States licensed doctor’s order, an approved dosing schedule, known side effects, FDA approval or a list of ingredients so they will not be given while at school. As with any medication, the parent is welcome to come to the school and administer medication to his/her child. Medications are available to print off above. Any students found carrying medication will receive disciplinary action from an administrator.
Print
Immunizations
  Immunization notices will be sent home in the mail prior to due dates to allow plenty of time to make a doctor’s appointment to get them done. Please feel free to get these shots done after the FIRST notice. Immunizations marked OPT. are considered optional but recommended. Three notices will be sent home prior to the due date if we have not received any new shot records. Students will be excluded unexcused after the due date until proper records are received in the clinic.
We do check ImmTrac, the state registry for immunizations. You may want to ask your Physician if they put immunizations in ImmTrac, and if they do not, please ask them to do so. We are able to locate some immunizations due on ImmTrac if updated.
       In some cases you may already have had a due immunization and we just do not have a record of it so please copy the shot record and bring it to the clinic.
       Notices for summer immunizations that are due prior to the first day of school (including 7th grade required immunizations) will be sent home prior to the end of the previous school year. Please feel free to get these done before school is out for summer and bring the record to the clinic. Immunization records due by the first day of school may be turned in during new student registration to the clinic or may be brought to WAIS Welcome. If immunization records have not been received by this date your student’s schedule will be held until the records are received and your student will not be allowed to start the first day of school. Thank you for helping keep Westchester Academy 100% with Immunization Compliance!!
Print
Screenings
State required screenings for Westchester Academy students:
Sixth Grade: 
Scoliosis
Seventh Grade:
   Hearing, Vision, Acanthosis Nigricans 
(Texas Risk Assessment for Type 
   2 Diabetes in Children)
Ninth Grade:
Scoliosis
All new students to SBISD: 
   Hearing, Vision, 
Scoliosis
, Height, Weight, Acanthosis 
   Nigricans 
(Texas Risk Assessment for Type 2 Diabetes in Children)
Print
Home
 | 
Students
 | 
FAQ
 | 
Terms Of Use
 | 
Privacy Statement
Original text
Contribute a better translation