Southwest Preparatory School District
Southwest Preparatory School District
Search
View Original
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
Guest
 | 
Login
Home
About Us
Staff Directory
History
Our Core Beliefs
Mission & Vision  Statement
Required Postings
Non Discrimination Statement
Board Information
About Our Superintendent
Schools
Our Schools
Registration and Enrollment
Parent Info
For Parents
Tips
Activities
Parent Portal
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-2018
Student Link
Student Links
Academies
Academy of Hospitality and Tourism
Academy of Law and Public Safety
Academy of New Media
College and Careers
Dual Credit
Scholarships
SAT/ACT Information
SWPS State Assessment Information
Course Catalog
Student CASE links
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-18
Staff 
Staff Portal
STAFF WEBMAIL
Staff CASE links
HR
Human Resources
Employee Resources
Employee Handbook 
Athletics
New Directions Campus-1258 Austin Highway
South East Campus-735 S. WW White
North West Campus-6535 Culebra
NWE Athletics 2015-2016
SASPC
Staff Directory
Member Districts
Joining the Co-op
Mission and Vision
Services
Training Opportunities
Parent Resources
Teacher Resources
News
Human Resources
Employment Opportunities
Health Co-op
Southwest Preparatory School District
 » 
About Us
 » 
Our Core Beliefs
Our Core Beliefs
SWPS Core Beliefs
1.
School is a place where students should learn their country’s heritage and the principles it was founded upon. Each school year the biographies of the Founding Fathers and the history of their sacrifices will be taught as will the history of the formation Declaration, Constitution and Bill of Rights.
2.
Patriotism and love of country should be fostered in each of the schools. Each day students will be asked to recite the pledge of their allegiance to our country and state.
3.
Our country was founded on Judeo-Christian values and beliefs. The Founding Fathers referred to our creator throughout our founding documents. Bibles are not banned from any of our campuses and all religions are to be respected. The schools may not deny students their individual right of religion while on campus.
4.
America was founded on the free enterprise system and capitalism to ensure the opportunity for success for all citizens not just a few. Students will be taught the advantages of capitalism over any other alternative economic system.
5.
A free people cannot remain strong unless the people are virtuous and morally strong and elect leaders who are such. Students will be taught character education and the code of conduct consistent with this.
6.
Students should learn to respect others- their opinions, property and right to an education. Students will be expected to treat others as they would like to be treated and avoid bullying, putting down others or interfering with the learning of others.
 7.    Students are a blessing to society and our requirement and duty is to respect the will of the parent and prepare students to be successful in school. Students will not be required to be part of a particular class that is inconsistent with the values of their family.
8.
Students should learn the value of delayed gratification so they can build a successful future. Students will have an opportunity to earn a scholarship after graduation for work completed from grades 6-12.
9.
All students and staff should be accountable for their performance to each other and the school. Students and staff should take responsibilities for mistakes and avoid blaming others.
10.   Our schools support and teach the importance of the principles embodied in Covey’s 
Seven Habit of Highly Effective People
. Students and staff will learn and apply the habits in their daily life while at school.
Facebook Page
Twitter Feed
1258 Austin Hwy, San Antonio, TX 78209 | Phone: 210-829-8017 | Fax: 210-829-8514
Website by 
SchoolMessenger Presence
.  © 2017 West Corporation. All rights reserved.