Southwest Preparatory School District
Southwest Preparatory School District
Search
View Original
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
Guest
 | 
Login
Home
About Us
Staff Directory
History
Our Core Beliefs
Mission & Vision  Statement
Required Postings
Non Discrimination Statement
Board Information
About Our Superintendent
Schools
Our Schools
Registration and Enrollment
Parent Info
For Parents
Tips
Activities
Parent Portal
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-2018
Student Link
Student Links
Academies
Academy of Hospitality and Tourism
Academy of Law and Public Safety
Academy of New Media
College and Careers
Dual Credit
Scholarships
SAT/ACT Information
SWPS State Assessment Information
Course Catalog
Student CASE links
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-18
Staff 
Staff Portal
STAFF WEBMAIL
Staff CASE links
HR
Human Resources
Employee Resources
Employee Handbook 
Athletics
New Directions Campus-1258 Austin Highway
South East Campus-735 S. WW White
North West Campus-6535 Culebra
NWE Athletics 2015-2016
SASPC
Staff Directory
Member Districts
Joining the Co-op
Mission and Vision
Services
Training Opportunities
Parent Resources
Teacher Resources
News
Human Resources
Employment Opportunities
Health Co-op
Southwest Preparatory School District
 » 
Health and Wellness
Health and Wellness
Zika Virus Information
The health and safety of our students and their families isalways a top priority at SWP and the San Antonio School Health Coop.  Whenissues of concern or opportunities to educate our community are brought to ourattention, we feel it is important to share information with you so thatappropriate steps can be taken.  
Over the past year, the Zika virus and its effects have beenprevalent in the news.  As the weather warms and mosquito activityincreases, we expect the threat of local mosquito transmission of Zika toresume and persist. Pregnant women are particularly at risk due to the Zikavirus' ability to cause birth defects in unborn infants. 
Texas has made significant progress in its efforts to delay andminimize the impact of Zika on the state and public health officials do notexpect widespread transmission across large areas of the state.
Please review the attached flyers regarding steps you can takeat home to prevent the spread of Zika.  To keep up with the latestinformation on the Zika virus at 
www.TexasZika.org
.  
Zika Fact Sheet
​
Zika Fact Sheet in Spanish
Please click 
HERE
 to link to the Child Nutrition Page with Breakfast and Lunch Menus
.
Southwest Preparatory Wellness Policy
Region 20 School Health and Safety Newsletter
Medication Policy:       
English
 Español
Immunizations:  TheTexas Education Code, Section 38.001, requires that each student beimmunized against certain diseases, and that schools maintain a recordof the student’s immunization on file.
All SWPS students must present a copy of their immunization records at the time of enrollment.
The law allows for the following exemptions:
A licensed physician may write a statement, stating that the    immunization(s) required would be medically harmful, or injurious to the    health and well-being of the child or household member.
The parent/guardian may choose an exemption from immunization    requirements for reasons of conscience, including religious belief.     Instructions for requesting the official exemption affidavit can be    found at 
www.ImmunizeTexas.com
 (link is below too.)  Original Exemption Affidavit must be completed, notarized, and submitted to the school.  Copies are not valid. 
Immunization Requirements PK English and Spanish
Immunization Requirements K-12 English and Spanish
Click the image below for additional   information  about immunizations:
            ​
For information about Transition and Employment, please click on the image below:  
Facebook Page
Twitter Feed
1258 Austin Hwy, San Antonio, TX 78209 | Phone: 210-829-8017 | Fax: 210-829-8514
Website by 
SchoolMessenger Presence
.  © 2017 West Corporation. All rights reserved.