Guest
 | 
Login
Teacher Resources
/
c
Staff Directory
Member Districts
Joining the Co-op
Mission and Vision
Services
Training Opportunities
Parent Resources
Teacher Resources
News
Human Resources
Southwest Preparatory School District
 » 
SASPC
 » 
Teacher Resources
Teacher Resources
​
Indirect Service (6 wks)
Indirect Service (9 wks)
Inclusion Support (6 wks)
Inclusion Support (9 wks)
CMC Support (6 wks)
CMC Support (9 wks)
IPI Support (6 wks)
IPI Support (9 wks)
Special Education
Special Education Assessment Resources
Special Education Assessments TETN Schedule
Special Education Monitoring
Special Education - Nonpublic Schools
Special Education - Residential Facility
Special Education - Graduation & Transition
"Provide[s] viewers with knowledge of the secondary transition process to facilitate student progress toward attainment of their postsecondary goals.  On this site you will find resources for students, parents, educators and agency resources."
"A guide to career information and
              hundreds of occupations!" 
General information about transition planning in Texas including state and national resources for technical assistance and training.
NSTTAC is the national technical assistance center for Indicator 13 and summary of performance. Includes resources related to transition legal requirements, evidence-based practices, and lesson plans. NSTTAC helps states build capacity to support and improve transition planning, services, and outcomes for youth with disabilities and disseminate information and provide technical assistance on scientifically-based research practices with an emphasis on building and sustaining state-level infrastructures of support and district-level demonstrations of effective transition methods for youth with disabilities.
National technical assistance center for Indicator 14 of the State Performance Plans. The NPSO helps state education agencies establish practical and rigorous data collection systems that will measure and profile the post-school experiences of youth with disabilities.
Serves as a research center and resource network for practitioners, researchers, and policymakers to 
reshape school and community environments to meet the needs of youth in at-risk situations so these students receive the quality education and services necessary to succeed academically and graduate from high school.
NDPC-SD provides evidence-based technical assistance to help states build and implement sustainable programs and best practices that will yield positive results in dropout prevention, reentry, and school completion for students with disabilities.
A network of National and Regional Technical assistance services for the National Parent Centers funded by the Individuals with Disability Education Act (IDEA) to provide information, training, support and resources.
Moving to another area? The Parent Center Exchange can help you locate a Parent Center in your community or state.
Coordinates national resources, offers technical assistance, and disseminates information related to secondary education and transition service for youth with disabilities in order to create opportunities for youth to achieve successful futures. Includes information and resources on secondary education, transition services, post-secondary education, employment, service agencies, and other areas, national and state organizations that support youth with disabilities, state and local program networks for improvement of secondary education and transition services.
"Funded by the 
City of San Antonio 
and managed by the San Antonio Education Partnership, cafécollege is dedicated to providing college access information, resources, and opportunities to the citizens of San Antonio.
Students, parents and anyone interested in going to college can use 
cafécollege
 as a resource to provide direction in navigating the college process."
Website by 
SchoolMessenger Presence
.  © 2017 West Corporation. All rights reserved.