Southwest Preparatory School District
Southwest Preparatory School District
Search
View Original
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
Guest
 | 
Login
Home
About Us
Staff Directory
History
Our Core Beliefs
Mission & Vision  Statement
Required Postings
Non Discrimination Statement
Board Information
About Our Superintendent
Schools
Our Schools
Registration and Enrollment
Parent Info
For Parents
Tips
Activities
Parent Portal
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-2018
Student Link
Student Links
Academies
Academy of Hospitality and Tourism
Academy of Law and Public Safety
Academy of New Media
College and Careers
Dual Credit
Scholarships
SAT/ACT Information
SWPS State Assessment Information
Course Catalog
Student CASE links
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-18
Staff 
Staff Portal
STAFF WEBMAIL
Staff CASE links
HR
Human Resources
Employee Resources
Employee Handbook 
Athletics
New Directions Campus-1258 Austin Highway
South East Campus-735 S. WW White
North West Campus-6535 Culebra
NWE Athletics 2015-2016
SASPC
Staff Directory
Member Districts
Joining the Co-op
Mission and Vision
Services
Training Opportunities
Parent Resources
Teacher Resources
News
Human Resources
Employment Opportunities
Health Co-op
Southwest Preparatory School District
 » 
Student Link
 » 
College and Careers
 » 
Dual Credit
Dual Credit
What is Dual Credit?
The Southwest Preparatory School Dual Credit Program provides a rare opportunity for bright, capable, and motivated high school students to receive college credit while they are still enrolled in high school. One of the goals of the program is to provide a positive collegiate learning experience for participating high school juniors and seniors.
Enrollment in college courses, especially during the senior year, allows a student to avoid the part of American high school culture known as the "senior slump." While enjoying the traditional ceremonies and rites of passage that accompany the senior year, qualifying students may also enroll in college freshman level courses that will apply toward an Associate's Degree and/or university transfer. This saves time and money for students and parents.
Dual Credit 
Benefits and Challenges 
Dual and Concurrent Enrollment for High School Students
Dual Credit
 is an opportunity for qualified junior and senior students to enroll in college courses that earn both high school graduation and college credit simultaneously.
Concurrent enrollment
 options provide college credit only for qualified high school junior and senior students.
Dual Credit is a platform that provides for a seamless transition from secondary to postsecondary education. It involves close collaboration between high school and college educators, on-going communication, structuring and planning for an integrated program of study. Dual credit and/or concurrent enrollment programs may be combined with Tech-Prep agreements.
Feedback from students who have been involved in the dual credit program indicates that students truly enjoy the interaction, involvement, interdisciplinary approach, and fun inherent in Academic Enrichment classes.
Benefits
Provides a head start on postsecondary core requirements 
Extends the variety of classes available to high school students 
Allows shared resources--college library, fine art performances, career development services 
Provides greater opportunity for a coordinated, seamless education 
Serves as a "controlled" introduction to college life 
Allows increased and easier transition to college 
Challenges
Transportation between high school and college campuses (Online courses available)
Differences in high school and college calendars 
Occasional lack of student maturity, self-discipline and motivation for college classes 
Facebook Page
Twitter Feed
1258 Austin Hwy, San Antonio, TX 78209 | Phone: 210-829-8017 | Fax: 210-829-8514
Website by 
SchoolMessenger Presence
.  © 2017 West Corporation. All rights reserved.