About Tapestry
History
Board of Trustees
Our School Model
NYS Charter School
Expeditionary Learning School
The Arts and Arts Integration
Dance
Music
Visual Arts
Theatre
Professional Development School
What is a Charter School?
Partnerships
Contact Us
Employment
Academic & Social Programs
K-5 Elementary
K-5 Elementary Program
K-8 Events Calendar
K-8 Faculty & Staff
5/6 Expedition, Fall 2013
K-5 Elementary Library
6-8 Middle School
9-12 High School
High School Program
Clubs & Organizations
Intensives
College Preparation
Honors Extension Program
High School Events Calendar
High School Faculty & Staff
High School Library
Guidance & Support Structures
Special Education
Response to Intervention
Crew & Team Building
Our Code of Character
Student-Led Conferences & Portfolios
Guidance
Health Office
Student Commons
Library
News & Events
Current Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
Tapestry in the News
Newsletter
Tapestry Expansion Updates
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Athletics
Select sport below for schedule:
Track & Field
Girls Basketball
Boys Basketball
Squash
Soccer
Softball
Volleyball
Middle School Club Sports
Forms & Downloads
Support Tapestry
Annual Giving
Sarah Thorp Acton Scholarship Fund
Nick Padilla International Travel Scholarship
Class Fundraisers
Tapestry Merchandise
Advocacy
Alumni
Volunteering
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Application & Application Process
About Tapestry Charter School:
Tapestry Charter School is a K-12 public school for children, parents and teachers who believe in weaving together the humanities, sciences, arts and social responsibility. Tapestry Charter School received approval from the State University of New York Board of Trustees and the New York State Education Department to open in September 2001.
The mission of Tapestry Charter School is to provide a challenging and rigorous education in an environment that emphasizes diversity, compassion, collaboration, community, creativity, and leadership, so that students are academically and socially prepared to meet the demands of further education while maturing into productive and caring adults with a lifelong passion for learning.
Public Information Sessions:  You can learn more about our program at one of our Public Information Sessions.  See our 
Upcoming Events
 page.
Shadow Dates:  Shadow dates provide potential Tapestry students an up-close look at our school and classes. A shadow date can be scheduled once your student has been accepted into the program in April. To arrange a shadow date after acceptance, please call the K-8 office at (716) 332-0754 or the High School office at (716) 204-5883. Special dates are scheduled for 8th graders who are considering Tapestry's high school program.
Application Process:
To apply, one must:
Pick up an application form at the school or click here to 
download one
:
Or request that an application be mailed to you.  Call 204-5883 or 332-0754.
Upon completion, all applications will be reviewed for accurate information. Applications for admission only remain valid during the school year applied for. Students who are not selected for admission need to reapply for the subsequent school years.
Lottery Process:
A lottery will be held to fill vacancies each school year.  Parents will be notified in writing when student have been selected through the lottery for admission. More details to come.
Waiting List:
In the event that class enrollments are filled, a waiting list will be maintained.  The wait list will be maintained for the school year. If an applicant has not been selected for admission, he or she must reapply for the following school year.  Parents will be notified in writing of their child’s position on the waiting list.  The waiting list does not carry forward to the following school year.
General Policies:
Students maintaining continuous enrollment at Tapestry Charter School need not reapply at the end of the school year.
All applicants will be selected through the lottery process.
Families with siblings will be given “ preference” if there is an opening in the grade requested. There is no guarantee that the school will have space for a sibling.
A student who has elected to withdraw from Tapestry Charter School and wishes to return Tapestry Charter School must reapply as a new student.
Registration Requirements:
 Students seeking admission for Kindergarten must:
Be 5 years old on or before December 1st
Be administered a Kindergarten readiness test
Have a report/evaluation from the pre-school teacher (if applicable)
Provide current immunization records
For all students, the registration process includes the completion of the following items:
Registration Form
Residency Verification Form and required documentation
Record Release Form
Copy of current report card and State testing scores
Copy of Birth Certificate
Copy of Immunizations. 
Copy of Current Physical.
Other items required by the administration and central office personnel
All K-12 2018-2019 applications must be postmarked by Sunday, April 1, 2018.
The K-12 Lottery is scheduled for Monday, April 9, 2018 at 9:00 AM in the High School Library.   Letters will be sent out to all applicants with your result.
Click here for 2018-2019 Application
									Copyright © 2017 
Tapestry Charter School
									65 Great Arrow Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14216
"Expeditionary Learning... this is how kids want to learn."								                                
site by ingenious inc.
view spanish site