About Tapestry
History
Board of Trustees
Our School Model
NYS Charter School
Expeditionary Learning School
The Arts and Arts Integration
Dance
Music
Visual Arts
Theatre
Professional Development School
What is a Charter School?
Partnerships
Contact Us
Employment
Academic & Social Programs
K-5 Elementary
K-5 Elementary Program
K-8 Events Calendar
K-8 Faculty & Staff
5/6 Expedition, Fall 2013
K-5 Elementary Library
6-8 Middle School
9-12 High School
High School Program
Clubs & Organizations
Intensives
College Preparation
Honors Extension Program
High School Events Calendar
High School Faculty & Staff
High School Library
Guidance & Support Structures
Special Education
Response to Intervention
Crew & Team Building
Our Code of Character
Student-Led Conferences & Portfolios
Guidance
Health Office
Student Commons
Library
News & Events
Current Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
Tapestry in the News
Newsletter
Tapestry Expansion Updates
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Athletics
Select sport below for schedule:
Track & Field
Girls Basketball
Boys Basketball
Squash
Soccer
Softball
Volleyball
Middle School Club Sports
Forms & Downloads
Support Tapestry
Annual Giving
Sarah Thorp Acton Scholarship Fund
Nick Padilla International Travel Scholarship
Class Fundraisers
Tapestry Merchandise
Advocacy
Alumni
Volunteering
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Get Involved
10 Easy Ways Families Can Get Involved at TCS
The following volunteer job descriptions can assist you in selecting a volunteer role at Tapestry Charter School. In addition, you can find out more details about events and volunteer positions by attending our TCA parent group meetings. Please 
click here
 for the 2012/13 TCA meeting dates.
Morning Greeter – Every morning there are morning greeters welcoming children as they are dropped off, and ushering them safely into the school. Volunteers help one day per week.
Library – Shelving books is always a great way to help the school.
Maintenance - Help with occasional painting, moving equipment, weeding and other small stuff around the school. This is one way to help out after school hours or on the occasional Saturday.
Clubs – Clubs are a unique Tapestry feature! K-4 students have fun learning and playing in small groups led by adult volunteers.   Consider running or helping run a club. This Friday afternoon K-4 event allows parents and teachers to share a hobby, craft or other interest with students. 
Classroom Volunteer – Tapestry teachers welcome helping hands in the classroom. If you are interested in helping out during the day you can volunteer weekly, monthly, or even just for special events (i.e. field trips). This is a fantastic way to get to know the children and teachers and become familiar with what your child is studying in school.
Room/Crew Parents – Two volunteers are needed to serve as room parents for their child’s classroom (K‐4) or crew (5‐8). Room parents ensure essential classroom tasks are accomplished by coordinating other parent volunteers and serve as a liaison for the teacher. They also assist school communication by sending emails or making phone calls.
The Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG) - PAG serves as a consultative body to assist the principal and administration in making decisions that reflect the interests of parents, faculty, and students. Community voice is encouraged in such areas as the setting and maintaining of school policies, the hiring of staff and the setting of priorities for use of funds. The group meets once a month.
Fundraising - Throughout the year, the TCA hosts a variety of fundraising and community building events.  The biggest fundraiser of the year is Planet Tapestry. Planet Tapestry is an auction that is held every spring and requires a lot of volunteer work on many different levels. It is important to note that charter schools receive only between 60-80% of what school districts actually spend on a per pupil basis. Money raised by the TCA is essential to continue the various enrichment programs offered at Tapestry.
Passage Panels - Before the end of the 10th grade and 12th grade years, panels are convened to review ‘passage portfolios’ and to listen to students defend their work. The panels include community members and experts, as well as family members. (Adult participants must work two full days, to review portfolios and to hear presentations.)
Hospitality - In a school that encourages community engagement and a culture of warmth and acceptance, there are times when family members are needed to provide refreshments or supplies for events or to host or supervise events.
									Copyright © 2017 
Tapestry Charter School
									65 Great Arrow Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14216
"Expeditionary Learning... this is how kids want to learn."								                                
site by ingenious inc.
view spanish site