About Tapestry
History
Board of Trustees
Our School Model
NYS Charter School
Expeditionary Learning School
The Arts and Arts Integration
Dance
Music
Visual Arts
Theatre
Professional Development School
What is a Charter School?
Partnerships
Contact Us
Employment
Academic & Social Programs
K-5 Elementary
K-5 Elementary Program
K-8 Events Calendar
K-8 Faculty & Staff
5/6 Expedition, Fall 2013
K-5 Elementary Library
6-8 Middle School
9-12 High School
High School Program
Clubs & Organizations
Intensives
College Preparation
Honors Extension Program
High School Events Calendar
High School Faculty & Staff
High School Library
Guidance & Support Structures
Special Education
Response to Intervention
Crew & Team Building
Our Code of Character
Student-Led Conferences & Portfolios
Guidance
Health Office
Student Commons
Library
News & Events
Current Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
Tapestry in the News
Newsletter
Tapestry Expansion Updates
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Athletics
Select sport below for schedule:
Track & Field
Girls Basketball
Boys Basketball
Squash
Soccer
Softball
Volleyball
Middle School Club Sports
Forms & Downloads
Support Tapestry
Annual Giving
Sarah Thorp Acton Scholarship Fund
Nick Padilla International Travel Scholarship
Class Fundraisers
Tapestry Merchandise
Advocacy
Alumni
Volunteering
Support Tapestry
Annual Giving
Sarah Thorp Acton Scholarship Fund
Nick Padilla International Travel Scholarship
Class Fundraisers
Tapestry Merchandise
Advocacy
Alumni
Volunteering
Volunteering
Volunteer opportunities include:
Fieldwork - Since much learning occurs out of the building in fieldwork settings, adult volunteers are often needed on fieldwork days. Additional adult supervision is often helpful, allowing for smaller groupings of students and more individual attention.
High School Passage Panels - Before the end of the 10th grade and 12th grade years, panels are convened to review ‘passage portfolios’ and to listen to students defend their work. The panels include community members and experts, as well as family members. (Adult participants must work two full days, to review portfolios and to hear presentations.)
Hospitality - In a school that encourages community engagement and a culture of warmth and acceptance, there are times when family members are needed to provide refreshments or supplies for events or to host or supervise events.
Morning Greeter - Every morning there are two morning greeters welcoming children as they are dropped off, and ushering them safely into the school. Volunteers help from 7:45am to 8:15am, one day per week.
Dining Room: Breakfast – Help children put cream cheese on their bagel, and remind them to toss their trash. Tables will need a quick wipe after the kids head up to their classrooms. Breakfast is served daily from 7:30am to 8:00am.
Dining Room: Lunch – Keep order, clean spills, and help hand out ice cream. Lunch is served from 11:00am to 1:00pm. Volunteers are welcome at anytime during lunch service, on whatever day best suits the volunteer.
Library – Shelve books and check books in and out. The library hours begin at 9:30 and continue all day so you can help anytime!
Maintenance – This is great way for the folks who are handy to contribute to the school. We need you to help with occasional painting, moving equipment, weeding and other small stuff around the school. This is one way to help out after school hours or on the occasional Saturday.
Clubs – Consider running or helping run a club. This Friday afternoon event allows parents and teachers to share a hobby, craft or other interest with students. Kids are so excited when their parents take part in clubs. It is one of the events that make attending Tapestry so special. Need some ideas for a club? We can help with that too! Sign up and we will contact you to share ideas.
Classroom Volunteer – Tapestry teachers welcome helping hands in the classroom. If you are interested in helping out during the day you can volunteer weekly, monthly, or even just for special events (i.e. field trips). This is a fantastic way to get to know the children and teachers, and become familiar with what your child is studying in school.
Room/Crew Parents – Two volunteers are needed to serve as room parents for their child’s classroom (K‐4) or crew (5‐8). Room parents are asked to make the occasional phone call to class/crew parents, should the teacher require it. Room parents also prepare class theme baskets which are raffled off during our “Planet Tapestry” fundraiser in the spring.
									Copyright © 2017 
Tapestry Charter School
									65 Great Arrow Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14216
"Expeditionary Learning... this is how kids want to learn."								                                
site by ingenious inc.
view spanish site