Original text
Contribute a better translation
Parent Connect
Donate
Contact
Careers
Calendar
Select Language
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chichewa
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Corsican
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Frisian
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hawaiian
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Khmer
Korean
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Luxembourgish
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Myanmar (Burmese)
Nepali
Norwegian
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Samoan
Scots Gaelic
Serbian
Sesotho
Shona
Sindhi
Sinhala
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Sundanese
Swahili
Swedish
Tajik
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Welsh
Xhosa
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
  Powered by 
Translate
Toggle navigation                                    
About Us 
Charter Schools
About Southwest Schools
History
Mission
Accountability
Professional Learning
Instructional Technology
Administration
Leadership
Board of Directors
Administrative Staff Directory
Departments
Business Office
Child Nutrition Program
College & Career Readiness
Community Relations
Curriculum
E-Colors
Human Resources
Information Technology
Learning Development
Safety/Security
Special Education
Student Support Services
Careers
Contact
FAQ
Our Schools 
Bissonnet Elementary
Mangum Elementary
Discovery Middle School
Empowerment High School
Phoenix School
Young Learners
Programs
Parents/Students 
District Calendar
Parent Connect
School Store
Student/Parent Handbook
Student Creed
Child Nutrition Program
Immunization Requirements
Be a Volunteer
Student Resources
Homework Resources
Scholarships
Wellness Policy
Sponsors/Volunteers 
Why Get Involved
Our Sponsors
How to Donate
Financial Support
Volunteer
Other Opportunities
FAQ
News
Campuses CLOSED Friday, November 3rd
Southwest Schools’ campuses and administrative office will be CLOSED tomorrow, Friday, November 3rd to allow our families and staff to enjoy the parade to celebrate our Would Series Champions #HoustonAstros!
“Our district is in agreeance with HISD: We are very proud to celebrate our champions with the rest of the city. We are also basing this decision on the congestions and heavy traffic that the parade can potentially cause around Houston.” – Janelle James, CEO/Superintendent of Schools.
Celebrate and be safe!
We will resume back to our regular schedule on Monday, November 6th.
        Released            November 2nd, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
CHANGE TO FRIDAY HALF-DAY SCHEDULE
STORY HIGHLIGHTS:  FULL DAY FRIDAYS | 1ST FRIDAY EVERY MONTH 1/2 DAY  |  NEW SCHEDULE TO BEGIN IN OCTOBER
Dear Parents/Guardians,
Please allow me to take this opportunity to thank you for a great school start. Despite the
devastating events of the past few weeks and the issues that families might have endured
during Harvey, students were present and excited about starting the new school year. We are
so glad to have your family in our Southwest Schools’ community. Together we will make this a
great year for our students!
As you may know, we lost nine school days as a result of the recent storm. Although the Texas
Educational Agency (TEA) is not requiring us to make up any of that lost instructional time, we
feel that it is in the best interest of our students to add instructional time back into the school
calendar. We are adding back the instructional time to provide the educational benefits our
students deserve.
To that end, we will transition to full day Fridays with one early release Friday each month. The
early release Friday will be the first Friday of each month. The change will begin in October.
I strongly feel that this is the right decision for our students. I believe that this will benefit
Southwest Schools’ students this year and in years to come. Recognizing that this represents a
significant change from past years of practice, we are asking for your support—both with the
school and with your children—with these changes.
You will receive additional correspondence regarding the changes and schedule for early release
days from your child’s campus. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact
your child’s campus principal.
Thank you for your continued support of Southwest Schools and for allowing us to be your
child’s school of choice.
All the best,
Janelle James,
Superintendent / CEO of Schools
        Released            September 21st, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Hurricane Harvey Donations & Relief:  A Message from the Superintendent
Southwest Cares
The Southwest Schools family pledges to support one another in the aftermath of the devastating floods caused by Hurricane Harvey. Join with us to help the student families and staff members  impacted by this terrible disaster. 
Dear Southwest Schools Community,
As we transition from the impact of such an historic event as Hurricane Harvey to creating a new normalcy in our district for our staff, students, and parents, my thoughts continue to be with you for peace, safety and strength. The recovery from such a devastating weather event is never easy, yet I am comforted by the compassion and humanity of people like our Southwest community.
The next few weeks and the ongoing recovery of our region will be long and difficult. As is our culture, the Southwest Schools family will support one another and we’ll get through this together.
We invite you to donate to the relief effort that will directly aid our student families and staff members who have been impacted by this terrible disaster.
Please continue to check the districts website at http://www.swschools.org, Facebook, and Twitter to obtain important updates regarding the start of school and information and resources to support you and your family during this unexpected transitional time. If you have any questions or need to leave a message for your campus you can respond by email to info@swschools.org.
These recent bright skies give us a renewed sense of hope and are a reminder that our community is full of light and love; let’s continue to lean on each other!
All the best,
Janelle James, Superintendent/CEO of Schools
and
Dr. Spyros Catechis, Founder/CEO
FINANCIAL DONATIONS
http://www.swschools.org/harveyrelief
All donations will go directly to Southwest Schools Hurricane victims.
Donate Online: Select “Other” and enter “Hurricane Relief” in the text box
Donate by Check: Make checks payable to Southwest Schools and include Hurricane Relief in the memo line
FOOD, SUPPLIES & CLOTHING
September 5th – 8th
Any Southwest Schools Campus
8:00AM – 3:30PM
School Supplies
First Aid Items
Non-Perishable Food
Baby Diapers, Baby Formula
Clothing (all sizes)
Cleaning Supplies
        Released            September 1st, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
WEATHER UPDATE:  Southwest Schools Closed Until September 11th
Southwest Schools campuses will reopen for students on Monday September 11th due to widespread damage from Hurricane Harvey.
Administrative and non-instructional staff are set to return to work on Tuesday, September 5th and teachers are scheduled to return to work on Wednesday, September 6th.
 The safety of our staff, our students and their families is our top priority. The storms and heavy rains that affected parts of the city make conditions too dangerous for school to begin any sooner.
        Released            August 27th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Jim Knight Instructional Coaching Event Postponed
Southwest Schools is please to partner with Jim Knight to present a 5-part series on Instructional Coaching.
Jim Knight’s Instructional Coaching Group has worked with 30,000 instructional coaches over the last 10 years, throughout 50 states and six continents.
This 5-part series is focused on improving teaching to improve learning, and is comprised of simple step-by-step processes that coaches and educators can master.
DUE TO HURRICANE HARVEY, ALL DATES HAVE BEEN POSTPONED UNTIL SPRING 2018.
1: The Complexity of Helping and The Impact Cycle
2: Better Conversations for Better Coaching
3: Video and Data in Instructional Coaching
4: High Impact Instruction for Great Teaching:  Instructional Coaching to Increase Student Engagement (Building and Instructional Coaching Playbook
5:  Instructional Coaches as Effective Leaders
Visit 
http://www.swschools.org/jimknight
 for additional details and to register.
        Released            August 8th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
            Tagged 
jim knight
Empowerment High School participated in College & Career Institute
Sparks were flying at Texas State Technical College as the 11 high school students enrolled in a nine-day College and Career Institute got some hands-on experience welding.
The institute is the first of its kind for TSTC and is a partnership between the college, Project Grad Houston, Café College Houston and the Texas Workforce Solution (TWC).
“It has been a pleasure hosting these students on campus,” said TSTC Recruitment Coordinator Marigold Sagrado. “They are attentive, well-mannered and I know they will be successful.”
The students participating in this institute were from Houston-based Southwest Charter School, Sharpstown High School and the Partnership for the Advancement and Immersion of Refugees and have shown an interest in pursuing science, technology, engineering and mathematic (STEM) fields.
“It’s always great when we can bring quality program options and a college experience opportunity to high school students who may not get this chance anywhere else,” said Anne Sung, Project Grad Houston vice president and chief strategy officer.
The institute focused on five career areas offered by TSTC: Cyber Security Technology, Welding Technology, Precision Machining Technology, HVAC Technology and Diesel Equipment Technology.
Instructors from each program engaged the students with hands-on career exploration activities and spoke with them regarding education pathways, the college application and financial aid process and careers they can pursue if they obtain a certificate or associate degree from TSTC.
During the institute students also received lessons on job interviewing and resume writing. Students learned how to represent themselves professionally by practicing greetings, handshakes, eye contact and self-introductions.  A portion of their time was also dedicated to interviews skills and resume development.
“We want these students to leave this institute open to the idea that college is a possibility and that they can be successful,” said Adriana Estrada, College Institute coordinator. “It’s about college and career readiness.”
To experience a real-work environment, the students also visited TSTC Board of Regent Joe Gurecky at his local business Gurecky Manufacturing, Inc. They had the opportunity to tour the facility and speak to professionals in the industry.
“All of the students have expressed interest in pursuing TSTC after high school,” said Sagrado. “I consider this 100 percent success.”
Sung said their data shows that students who attend at least two institutes are more likely to enroll in college after high school.
“The impact of these institutes helping students get inspired to go to college is very powerful,” said Sung. “And we’re very grateful to our partners at the TWC and TSTC for making this program possible for our students.”
Sotelo, Amanda. “TSTC Hosts Summer College and Career Institute” Downtown Houston BubbleLife, 5 July 2017. Web. 20 July 2017
View complete article. 
        Released            July 20th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Southwest Schools Awarded T-Stem Academy Designation
We are pleased to announce that Southwest Schools has been approved for the designation of a T-STEM Academy by the Texas Education Agency (TEA).
The Texas Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (T-STEM) Initiative provides a foundational approach to empower teachers, inspire students, and advance the studies in these four fields.  
T-STEM ACADEMY
A T-STEM Academy is rigorous secondary school focusing on improving instruction and academic performance in science and mathematics-related subjects and increasing the number of students who study and enter STEM careers.
Southwest Schools joins the select group of only 22 schools to join the 121 Academies who have received the designation.  Going forward, Southwest Schools will serve as a demonstration school and learning lab to showcase innovative instruction methods which integrate technology and engineering into science and mathematics instruction.
Southwest Schools successfully completed the rigorous designation process by demonstrating the key elements of the T-STEM blueprint, including:
Mission-driven leadership
T-STEM Culture
Student Outreach, Recruitment, and Retention
Teacher Selection, Development, and Retention
Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment
Strategic Alliances
Academy Advancement and Sustainability
In an open letter to our District, Mike Morath, TEA Commissioner of Education writes, “Thank you for Southwest Schools’ hard work and dedication in providing STEM opportunities for students so they may accelerate their learning and graduate from high school prepared for the post-secondary path of their choosing.”
For more information on Southwest Schools and T-STEM, contact Dr. Brenda Arteaga, Southwest Schools Superintendent.
        Released            July 10th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
            Tagged 
Southwest Schools
, 
T-Stem Academy
Southwest Schools Graduation 2017
The Southwest Schools graduating seniors will be recognized on Friday, May 26, 2017 at 6pm at Houston Baptist University located at 7502 Fondren Rd, Houston, TX 77074.
Ceremony photos will be available to view and purchase through Rhonda Floyd Photography.
Visit 
http://www.rhondafloyd.com
Click “Find your Photos”
Click “Sports and Portraits taken after Feb 14 2017
Click “Events”
Click  Gallery Name – May26
Enter  your email
Enter password swhs17
        Released            May 12th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
New Career and Technology Center
Southwest Schools is pleased to announce the expansion of Southwest Middle School and Southwest High School with the addition of the new Career and Technology Center to serve the District’s secondary students.
The STEAM facility, located within the Middle School and High School complex, will introduce more than 17,500 square feet of space for math, science, fine arts, and technology courses. Features will include flexible and collaborative spaces, state-of-the-art computer systems, industrial learning equipment, a performance hall, and more.
Known for its safe, innovative and intimate campuses, Southwest Schools will be able to accommodate an additional 60 high school and 110 middle school students from across the Houston area. “We planned this expansion as part of Southwest Schools strategic plan to provide more space for innovative teaching and learning, with a focus on enhancing 21st Century career and college readiness”, says Dr. Brenda Arteaga, Superintendent.
The Center that was designed by local Houston architect, Kay Macias, is being constructed by Longevity Realty Partners (LRP) and is scheduled to open for the 2017-2018 school year.
For enrollment information, to learn more about Southwest Schools or to become a community partner, please visit 
www.swschools.org
.
        Released            May 4th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Board Member Ed Vesely Copilots B-17 Plane at Airshow
Ed Vesely Copilots B-17 Aircraft
On April 21st, Southwest Schools Board Member Ed Vesely, served as copilot on a B-17 aircraft at the Gulf Coast Salute Airshow at Tyndall AFB in Panama City, Florida.
Mr. Vesely, Senior Sales Director at Welsch Aviation, is a seasoned pilot with 40 year’s flying experience.  He is also a respected member of the Board of Directors at Southwest Schools and continuously provides valuable insight and guidance to our district.
Mr. Vesely is one of the few people that are lucky enough to fly the aircraft known as “The Flying Fortress”.  Primarily used as a military plane in WWII and then as a civilian aircraft for several years after, there are currently only 15 of the 12,731 originally produced, flying today.
B-17 Flying Fortress Aircraft
Home
        Released            May 2nd, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Where Education Meets Exploration
        Released            April 27th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
Uncategorized
Now Enrolling for the 2017-2018 School Year
Welcome New Students!
Enrollment applications are now being accepted at all Southwest Schools campuses for the 2017-2018 school year. 
Click here
 to apply.
 About Southwest Schools
Southwest Schools is a premier school district open to students in the Greater Houston Area.  Small, safe campuses provide the perfect setting to help kids Pre-K through 12th grade learn, grow and prepare for their futures!
        Released            April 7th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
2017 – 2018 District Calendar Now Available
The official Southwest Schools 2017-2018 District Calendar is now available.
Click here
 to view/download.
        Released            April 6th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
, 
Uncategorized
Mangum Elementary Welcomes New Principal
Welcome Maryury Fernandez M.Ed.,  Mangum Elementary Principal
Southwest Mangum Elementary is pleased to welcome Maryury Fernandez as our new Principal and wish Dr. Olivares good luck in her new role as Chief Operations, Accountability, & Compliance Officer at Southwest Schools district headquarters.
About Ms. Fernandez:
Maryury Fernandez began her career in education in 1988.  Ms. Fernandez has served as a bilingual teacher, Bilingual/ESL Instructional Supervisor, Assistant Principal, and Multilingual & Assessment Director, mostly in Houston Independent School District and Southwest Schools. She has held positions in both the elementary and secondary settings and is deeply committed to improving academic achievement and lifelong learning skills for all students.  Maryury came to Southwest Schools in 2012, and proudly served as the Multilingual & Assessment Director for four years.  Maryury Fernandez is an advocate for all students, and she appreciates the challenges that students from low income families face.  Ms. Fernandez believes that all children can succeed when provided the right support.
She sets high expectations and supports a rigorous academic program at Mangum Elementary School.  Her number one goal is that students receive the foundation to be college and career ready and achieve lifelong success.
        Released            January 23rd, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Delayed Start (10:00 AM) – Wednesday, January 18
Due to weather conditions in the Houston area, all Southwest Schools will have a delayed start of 10:00 AM, today, Wednesday January 18, 2017.  Schools will close at normally scheduled times.
        Released            January 18th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Southwest Receives “Superior” Rating for 15-16 Fiscal Year
Southwest Schools has received a Rating of “Superior” from the Texas Education Agency for its 2015-2016 fiscal year School FIRST (Financial Integrity Rating System of Texas) for its excellence in fiscal management according to state guidelines. The School First Report is based on 20 indicators which gives a district a numerical value. The purpose of the financial accountability rating system, known as the School Financial Integrity Rating System of Texas (FIRST), is to ensure that open-enrollment charter schools are held accountable for the quality of their financial management practices and that they improve those practices. The system is designed to encourage Texas public and charter schools to better manage their financial resources in order to provide the maximum allocation possible for direct instructional purposes. Southwest Schools’ Business Department continues to strive for excellence and transparency. This state award is evident that employees are committed to financial responsibility and to meeting state guidelines.
        Released            January 12th, 2017  |             
            Posted in 
News
Dr. Spyros Catechis Appointed to Board of Hellenic College
Dr. Spyros Catechis, Southwest Schools Founder & CEO, has been appointed to the Board of Directors for Hellenic College Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology in Boston, Massachusetts.
        Released            December 12th, 2016  |             
            Posted in 
News
Latin Women’s Initiative Awards Grant to Southwest Schools
The 
Latin Women’s Initiative
 awarded a generous grant in the amount of $15,000 to Southwest Schools to support the district’s Summer Reading Program.
The program aims to help children and teens retain and enhance their reading skills over the summer. Research has shown that kids who participate in these programs are 
52 Lexile
 points ahead of their peers who do not. Summer reading programs are also an antidote for learning loss. So instead of losing knowledge and skills during the summer months, kids who attend reading programs actually show gains.
The mission of the nonprofit Latin Women’s Initiative is to support such programs and is dedicated to making a difference in the lives of Latin women and their families by providing both financial and volunteer support to several local nonprofit organizations in our community.
        Released            November 8th, 2016  |             
            Posted in 
News
SHAC/Local Wellness Meeting Notice
School Health Advisory Council (SHAC)/Local Wellness Meeting Notice:
November 2, 2016
9:00 AM
Southwest Schools’ Central Office
3333 Bering Drive, Houston Texas
January 10, 2017
9:00 AM
Southwest Schools’ Central Office
3333 Bering Drive, Houston Texas
        Released            November 7th, 2016  |             
            Posted in 
News
High School Students Participate in Mock Election
Last week, a mock Presidential election was held at SWHS as part of the Mexican American Bar Association’s (MABAH) Mentor Leadership Program.
Ninth graders Melissa Roman and John Valdaverde posed as our candidates and the student body was amazing with their input and knowledge of the candidates.
Southwest thank MABAH members and other volunteers, including: Attorney Carolina Diaz-Orturza; Judge Joe Villarreal; Attorney Lupita Matcschiner; Mr. Jesus A. Salinas (Law Student); Manuel Solis (Law Student); Ms. Dominique Patterson; and Mrs. Ernestine Pierce.
        Released            October 25th, 2016  |             
            Posted in 
News
Resources
ENROLL NOW
CALENDAR
                                Quick Links                            
                        CONTACT US  |  ADMINISTRATION BUILDING: 3333 BERING DRIVE, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77057
                        © 2013-2014 Southwest School. All rights reserved. 
Terms of User and Privacy Statement