Original text
Contribute a better translation
Parent Connect
Donate
Contact
Careers
Calendar
Select Language
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chichewa
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Corsican
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Frisian
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hawaiian
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Khmer
Korean
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Luxembourgish
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Myanmar (Burmese)
Nepali
Norwegian
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Samoan
Scots Gaelic
Serbian
Sesotho
Shona
Sindhi
Sinhala
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Sundanese
Swahili
Swedish
Tajik
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Welsh
Xhosa
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
  Powered by 
Translate
Toggle navigation                                    
About Us 
Charter Schools
About Southwest Schools
History
Mission
Accountability
Professional Learning
Instructional Technology
Administration
Leadership
Board of Directors
Administrative Staff Directory
Departments
Business Office
Child Nutrition Program
College & Career Readiness
Community Relations
Curriculum
E-Colors
Human Resources
Information Technology
Learning Development
Safety/Security
Special Education
Student Support Services
Careers
Contact
FAQ
Our Schools 
Bissonnet Elementary
Mangum Elementary
Discovery Middle School
Empowerment High School
Phoenix School
Young Learners
Programs
Parents/Students 
District Calendar
Parent Connect
School Store
Student/Parent Handbook
Student Creed
Child Nutrition Program
Immunization Requirements
Be a Volunteer
Student Resources
Homework Resources
Scholarships
Wellness Policy
Sponsors/Volunteers 
Why Get Involved
Our Sponsors
How to Donate
Financial Support
Volunteer
Other Opportunities
FAQ
Instructional Coaching Series By Jim Knight
REGISTER NOW AND SECURE YOUR SPOT FOR THIS EXCEPTIONAL EVENT
You are invited to attend a premier Instructional
Coaching event by the world-renowned Jim Knight Instructional Coaching Group.
Jim Knight’s Instructional Coaching Group has worked with 30,000 instructional coaches over the last 10 years, throughout 50 states and six continents.
This 5-part series is focused on improving teaching to improve learning, and is comprised of simple step-by-step processes that coaches and educators can master.
January 24
: The Complexity of Helping and The Impact Cycle
January 25
: Better Conversations for Better Coaching
February 20
: Video and Data in Instructional Coaching
February 21
: High Impact Instruction for Great Teaching:  Instructional Coaching to Increase Student Engagement (Building and Instructional Coaching Playbook
March 22
:  Instructional Coaches as Effective Leaders
Event Speakers
Jim Knight Ph. D, has spent more than two decades studying professional learning, effective teaching, and instructional coaching. He is a Research Associate at the University of Kansas Center for Research on Learning and the President of the Instructional Coaching Group.
Jim’s articles on professional learning, teaching, and instructional coaching have appeared in journals such as “The Journal of Staff Development,” “Principal Leadership,” “The School Administrator,” “Kappan,” and “Educational Leadership.” 
Read More >
Ann Hoffman, M.Ed. is a Professional Development Leader for the University of Kansas, Center for Research on Learning with more than 30 years of experience. She started her career as both an elementary and middle school teacher. She went on to work at an intermediate agency where she was assigned to 20 teachers each year to consultant, coach, as well as conduct professional development.  She has now trained and coached hundreds of professional developers for the University of Kansas, CRL. 
Read More >
REGISTER TODAY!
$950 Includes All 5 Dates!
Location
Brentwood Baptist Church
13033 Landmark
Lifelong Learning Center
Houston, TX 77045
View Map
Questions?
Rose Norman
713-784-6345
rnorman@swschools.org
What You’ll Learn:
Understanding how to work with adults (which we refer to as understanding the complexities of helping and the partnership approach)
Understanding the coaching cycle
Understanding high-impact teaching practices
Understanding how to gather data and use video as a part of coaching
Effective communication skills
Effective leadership skills and systems thinking (what principals need to know about coaching)
January 24
The Complexity of Helping and The Impact Cycle
Jim Knight’s Instructional Coaching session will describe what instructional coaches do, distinguish between effective and ineffective coaching practices, and provide an overview of the current state of research on coaching. Specifically, this session addresses the following questions:
What is instructional coaching and how does it differ from other forms of coaching?
What can a coach do to foster commitment in others?
What is the theoretical foundation of instructional coaching?
Which communication strategies can a person use to build healthy relationships with other professionals?
What are the various activities instructional coaches do (enrolling teachers, pre-conferencing, observing classes, modeling in and outside the classroom, and debriefing), and what are the effective ways in which they should be conducted?
What does research say about effective coaching practices?
How can coaches build coherence and disseminate ideas across schools?
Which leadership skills enable coaches to lead reform efforts in their school?
January 25
Better Conversations for Better Coaching
The Knight-developed training on Better Conversations is a critical component of effective coaching—it’s no add-on to squeeze in. Effective communication strategies are essential for professional success. Coaches, leaders, and educators who make the greatest impact know how to communicate their message clearly, build healthy emotional connections with others, and maneuver emotionally complex situations in ways that allow them to speak the truth in a way that will be heard—the very practices this workshop explores.
This workshop, based on Jim Knight’s book Better Conversations: Coaching Ourselves and Each Other To Be More Credible, Caring, and Connected (2016), offers an intensive one-day exploration of six Better Conversation Beliefs and ten Better Conversation essential communication habits that can help anyone communicate more effectively at work or at home. Communication is the lifeblood of coaching, and the more effectively coaches communicate, the more effectively everyone learns: teacher and students.
February 20
Video and Data In Instructional Coaching
To improve our teaching methods, we must understand what our current teaching methods are; and this is impossible to do based only on our own perceptions or even feedback from observers. A classroom is a dynamic environment and there is always a lot going on that can be missed in the moment.
The solution, according to renowned professional development expert Jim Knight, is video. In the Focus on Teaching book and workshop, Knight turns to the vast and disruptive potential of video recording to reach new levels of excellence in schools. This PD builds on Knight’s prior bestsellers to show how every classroom can easily benefit from setting up a camera and hitting “record.”  The PD includes:
Strategies that teachers, instructional coaches, teams, and administrators can use to get the most out of using video
Tips for ensuring that video recordings are used in accordance with ethical standards and teacher/student comfort levels
Protocols, data gathering forms, and many other tools to get the most out of watching video
With Jim Knight’s expertise and the latest in video technology, positive change in your classroom will be immediate and long-lasting.
February 21
High Impact Instruction for Great Teaching: Instructional 
Coaching to
Increase Student Engagement (Building and Instructional Coaching Paybook)
When it comes to improving instruction, teachers, instructional coaches, and administrators have literally hundreds of options. But which teaching practices are the few that show the greatest potential to improve student learning? Researchers at the Instructional Coaching Group have been exploring this question for the past decade. The result, described in Jim Knight’s High-¬‐Impact Instruction: A Framework for Great Teaching, focuses on the instructional areas of content planning, formative assessment, engaging instruction, and community building.
This High Impact Instruction workshop provides an overview of the high-yield teaching strategies built into the framework for great teaching described in High-Impact Instruction, also known as the Big Four. Specifically, participants will learn about:
Engaging Instruction, involving thinking prompts, effective questions, cooperative learning, stories,  authentic learning..
Participants will:
learn the 14 high-impact teaching practices in the Big Four Great Teaching Framework.
discuss each teaching practice with other participants to gain multiple perspectives on the learning that is shared.
hear about teaching practices being implemented by educational leaders from across the country.
learn how instructional coaches can provide the intensive support necessary for high-quality implementation of the Big Four teaching practices.
March 22
Instructional Coaches as Effective Leaders
Effective coaches are also effective leaders. This workshop identifies nine essential leadership tactics that coaches will leverage to effectively lead and support teachers and facilitate student achievement improvement.
Hurry! Space is Limited!
Space for this conference are limited to 100 educators.
$950 Includes All 5 Dates!
Southwest Schools is a choice-based Texas education district with an understanding that true learning is not based on standardized testing or college entrance, but on offering a fulfilling educational experience that can be adjusted for each student. 
Click Here
 to learn more at Southwest Schools.
                                Quick Links                            
                        CONTACT US  |  ADMINISTRATION BUILDING: 3333 BERING DRIVE, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77057
                        © 2013-2014 Southwest School. All rights reserved. 
Terms of User and Privacy Statement