#STHOPEwearethefuture
Select Language
French
Spanish
Login
Email
: 
Password
: 
Create Account
or Create Account
St HOPE Leadership Academy Charter School
Site Navigation
Home
About Us
Welcome
Career Opportunities
Staff / Faculty Directory
Faculty Handbook
Board of Directors
Photo Albums
Email Lists
Directions
Charter
Financials
Annual Report
Contact Us
Academics
Core Curriculum
Contact a Teacher
Support Services
Results
Admissions
Student Application
Request Info
Student Life
Uniform Information
Clubs & Activities
Athletics
Event Photos
Meal Application
Student Handbook
												Uniform Information									
																		Dress Code
St. HOPE Leadership Academy Charter School believes that a scholar’s appearance has an impact on his or her attitude, behavior, and his or her readiness to learn. Respect for the school community is evidenced by dressing appropriately. Scholars must adhere to a dress code that enhances the educational environment at all times. The dress code will be enforced at all school activities. Scholars will be required to wear the school uniform.
Each student’s parent(s) or guardian is required to purchase the appropriate polo shirt and Khaki pants.  Polo shirts are available in the Main Office.
In addition to pants and a polo shirt, scholars must wear:
Shoes that have a back strap and are completely black; SHLA polo shirts must be tucked in at all times
Optional: Belts that are black; St. HOPE fleece with a St. HOPE polo underneath; Short or long-sleeve white t-shirt that is worn underneath a St. HOPE polo and during PE, a school-provided PE uniform.
In addition to apparel that is not in compliance with the above, scholars may not wear the following:
Shorts or skirts, ripped or frayed pants, ripped or frayed polo’s, non-white short or long-sleeve t-shirt that is worn underneath a St. HOPE polo, hoods/hats/caps, bandannas, sunglasses, hair combs, scarves, hairnets and curlers, sweatbands and wave caps, grills, PE clothing except during PE, gang-related symbols, colors, and/or insignias, shoes or sandals with heels over 2-inches, hairstyles that interfere with the learning environment
Price List:
Polo Shirts: $15
Fleece Jacket: $25
				222 West 134th Street
				New York, NY 10030
				Phone: (212) 283-1204
				Fax: (212) 283-1207			
© St Hope Leadership
Academy Charter School
info@sthopeharlem.org
			Follow Us			
Like us on Facebook!
Instagram!!
powered by Educational Networks
Original text
Contribute a better translation