Southwest Preparatory School District
Southwest Preparatory School District
Search
View Original
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
Guest
 | 
Login
Home
About Us
Staff Directory
History
Our Core Beliefs
Mission & Vision  Statement
Required Postings
Non Discrimination Statement
Board Information
About Our Superintendent
Schools
Our Schools
Registration and Enrollment
Parent Info
For Parents
Tips
Activities
Parent Portal
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-2018
Student Link
Student Links
Academies
Academy of Hospitality and Tourism
Academy of Law and Public Safety
Academy of New Media
College and Careers
Dual Credit
Scholarships
SAT/ACT Information
SWPS State Assessment Information
Course Catalog
Student CASE links
Counselor's Corner
Student-Parent Handbook 2017-18
Staff 
Staff Portal
STAFF WEBMAIL
Staff CASE links
HR
Human Resources
Employee Resources
Employee Handbook 
Athletics
New Directions Campus-1258 Austin Highway
South East Campus-735 S. WW White
North West Campus-6535 Culebra
NWE Athletics 2015-2016
SASPC
Staff Directory
Member Districts
Joining the Co-op
Mission and Vision
Services
Training Opportunities
Parent Resources
Teacher Resources
News
Human Resources
Employment Opportunities
Health Co-op
Southwest Preparatory School District
 » 
Parent Info
Parent Info
MMR Vaccine Notice
Parent Involvement / Engagement
Southwest Preparatory School District and the Community
Title One, Part A Meeting – Parentsare encouraged to attend an informational meeting to inform them aboutthe school’s participation in Title 1, Part A programs.
SWPS and Operation Homefront- Assist military families during difficult financial times byproviding food assistance in the form of canned foods and other nonperishable food items. Canned food drive runs in the Fall.
Sexting Prevention Program- On June 17, 2011, Governor Rick Perry signed into Texas legislationSenate Bill 407, which addresses the issue of sexting between minors. 
Read More...
Parent and Community Involvement Opportunities
CTE Advisory Committee- The committee provides a link between the community and the schooldistrict for the purpose of improving Computer, Technology, andWorkforce programs to equip students with current workplace skills. Thecommittee meets monthy and is composed of community members fromAlamo College, business and industry, Career and Technical Educationcounselors, parents, and students.
     Department: Career and Technical Education       Contact: James Hope 210-829-8017
Campus Improvement Team on each school campus - Eachcampus team meets at least six (6) times a year to oversee the campusimprovement plans for each campus. Principals appoint from two (2) tofour (4) parents, two (2) community representatives, and one (1)business representative to their team, representing the diversity ontheir campus.  
     Department: Individual School           Contact: Local Campus 210-829-8017
Coffee with the Principals - Parents and community members meet with principals for give-and-take talk sessions throughout the school year.
     Department: Individual School           Contact: Local Campus 210-829-8017
District-wide Educational Improvement Council (DEIC) - meetsfour (4) times per year from 5:00 – 6:00 p.m. The group discussesdistrict programs, sets district performance objectives, etc. (Number ofparents/community members/business representatives needed: 3 of each).
     Department: School Improvement        Contact: Cyndy Spivey 210-829-8017
Family Involvement Month - Special events planned to emphasize partnerships between families and schools in November.
     Department: Parental Involvement        Contact: Each indi
vidual school for the parent 
liaison.  
Input Opportunity for Curriculum and Textbook Selection - To provide suggestions for district curriculum, and textbook choices. 
     Department: School Improvement         Contact: Christ
in
n Jean- 210-829-8017
LIGHT (Life Intervention and Guidance for Healthy Teens) - StudentServices Specialists work with students, parents, and staff at all SWPScampuses. The LIGHT program’s overall goal is to strengthen theeducational process of students who are experiencing the effects ofsubstance abuse, crisis, or exhibiting behaviors of concern.
Department
Contact
Social Services/Homelessness
Christinn Jean 210-829-8017
Meet the Teacher Events - Toencourage interaction between parents and teachers at events such asOpen House, Meet-the-Teacher Night, Parent-Teacher Conferences, andSpecial Events, etc.
     Department: Individual School       Contact: Local
Partners in Education Program-Oversees the school/business partnership efforts in the district aspartners serve as tutors, mentors, and have donated resources, services,and equipment.
Department
Contact
Marketing/Community Outreach
James Hope 210-829-8017
School Health Advisory Council - To make recommendations about the district’s health education instruction. The council meets 4 times during the school year.
     Department: Health Services       Contact: Thelma Burrell 210-829-8017
Title I Parent Advisory Committee - Meetstwo (2) times a year, normally in the fall and late spring. Thecommittee discusses Title I programs and budget as well as makessuggestions for future programs and approves the following year’s fiscalbudget plans. One (1) parent and one (1) administrator from each campuswill attend as well as others that oversee/administer the programsfunded by Title I.
     Department:  Title 1 Parental Involvement      Contact: 
District Office 210-829-8017
Volunteer Organizations - Toprovide student support in various programs such as reading, mentoring,tutoring, printing, teacher’s aide, etc. Interested participants mustcomplete a “Volunteer Registration” form for a background check.
     Department: Individual Campus         Local School: 210-829-8017
Parent Packet Download
Facebook Page
Twitter Feed
1258 Austin Hwy, San Antonio, TX 78209 | Phone: 210-829-8017 | Fax: 210-829-8514
Website by 
SchoolMessenger Presence
.  © 2017 West Corporation. All rights reserved.