HOME
OUR APPROACH
OUR TEAM
DONATE
INDUCTION
SIATECH SCHOOLS
STAFF
OUR BOARD
TRANSCRIPT REQUEST
HOME
OUR APPROACH
OUR TEAM
DONATE
INDUCTION
SIATECH SCHOOLS
STAFF
Board of Directors
Board Meeting Calendar, Agendas, and Minutes
SIATech Inc. Board Meetings 
SIATech Academy South Board Meetings
SIATech Arkansas Board Meetings
Board Members
Shirley Y. Bullard, Vice President of Human Resources and Chief Personnel Officer, The Ken Blanchard Companies
Dr. Bullard joined the SIATech Board of Directors in 2005. She is vice president of human resources and chief personnel officer with The Ken Blanchard Companies, a leadership and management training company based in Escondido, California. Prior to joining Blanchard, Shirley was the Director of Personnel Support Services with the Poway Unified School District. At Poway, her responsibilities included classified and certificated personnel functions and district-wide programs including health and welfare benefits, unemployment, workers' compensation, ADA, and personnel records management. Shirley's industry experience has also included more than 15 years with the U.S. Navy as a civilian employee who handled equal employment, labor relations, management and general personnel issues. Shirley attended Thomas Jefferson (formerly Western State University College of Law), San Diego receiving her JD and Bachelor of Science Law degrees in 1985. She is a past recipient of the YMCA's Tribute to Women in Industry Award, which recognized women who have made outstanding contributions to their employers in executive or managerial roles.
Greg Cohen, SIATech, Learning Design Coordinator
Greg has been in non-traditional education since 1994 and with SIATech since 1999, serving first as a lead teacher before moving on to administrative roles, primarily designing and facilitation curriculum and professional development, and supporting teachers and students. A trained creative problem solving facilitator, Greg has worked with boards, conferences, and teams to plan strategically, discover novel solutions, and think outside, around, and far from the box. He is a graduate of Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania (B.A. in English/Education) and National University (M.S. in Education Technology). Greg joined the board in 2016.
Linda C. Dawson, EdD, Superintendent/CEO, SIATech
Dr. Dawson serves as President of the SIATech Board of Directors. She began working with Guajome Park Academy in April of 2000. In 2004, Linda became Superintendent and CEO of SIATech, Inc. Linda’s experience includes Director of Education Services at Guajome Park Academy. She served as principal at Abraxas High School, assistant principal at Twin Peaks Middle School and Bernardo Heights Middle School, all in the Poway Unified School District. She was recognized twice as the Outstanding Secondary Administrator by the Association of Poway School Managers, and Teacher of the Year for her exemplary work at Bernardo Heights Middle School. Most recently, Linda was honored as a finalist in the James Irvine Foundation Leadership Award and received a $25,000.00 grant to be used for education programs at SIATech. She is a certified Franklin Covey trainer in Leadership, FOCUS, Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, and Management. Linda earned her Ed.D. from United States International University, her Master of Science degree from Eastern Kentucky University, and her Bachelors Degree from the University of California at Santa Barbara.
Michael H. Fickel, BA, MA
Michael Fickel joined the SIATech Board of Directors in 2014. He is a retired teacher and school administrator with 36 years experience in public schools in grades pre-school through twelve. After retiring from the Poway Unified School District, he became active at the university level working as an Adjunct Professor in the College of Education at California State University, San Marcos. Michael's experience in K-12 schools includes: mathematics teacher at the middle school level in Laguna Beach, California; assistant principal at the middle school level and elementary school principal in seven schools in the Poway Unified School District. During his 28 years in Poway Unified, he also served as Director of Pupil Personnel Services and School Local Plan Area Director of Special Education (SELPA) for three years. Michael earned his degree in Mathematics at California State University, San Diego. He received his Masters Degree in School Administration from Chapman College. Michael holds a life credential in Elementary and Secondary Teaching as well as in School Administration. He currently serves on other boards that target service and support for under-served youth. Michael is also an active leader in YMCA activities related to long-distance bicycle touring.
Scott Gross, EdD
Associate Vice President, Community Engagement, Cal-State San Marcos
Donald G. Haught, EdD (Chair)
Dr. Haught became a SIATech board member and treasurer in the fall of 2011. He brings extensive experience with various school districts, serving as Principal at Laguna Beach High School, the Superintendent of Ramona Unified School District and both Assistant Superintendent of Personnel Services and Deputy Superintendent of Educational Services for Poway Unified School District. He also served as the Executive Director for the Western Association of Schools and Colleges Accrediting Commission (WASC) in Burlingame, California. Donald earned his Ed.D. in School Administration with emphasis in Personnel Management and Curriculum from the University of Southern California, his Master of Science degree in Secondary Education/History and a Bachelor of Science degree in Social Science/Science from Oklahoma State University.
National Administrative Offices
2611 Temple Heights Drive, Suite A
Oceanside, CA 92056
Phone: 760-945-1227
Fax: 760-631-3401
info@siatech.org
SIATech High
MYcroSchool
NEWCorp
PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT
RAPSA