Select a School					
Sequoia Schools
American Heritage Academy
Arizona Conservatory for Arts and Academics
Children First Leadership Academy
George Washington Academy
Pathfinder Academy
Sequoia Pathfinder Academy at Eastmark
Sequoia Charter School Elementary
Sequoia Charter School Secondary
Sequoia Choice - Arizona Distance Learning
Sequoia Choice Precision School
Sequoia Deaf School
Sequoia Lehi School
Sequoia Pathway Academy
Sequoia Village School
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
> Staff Login
Home
About SVS
Administration
Campus Map
Mindy Savoia’s Corner
Sequoia Wellness Policy
News
SVS TV
Photo Gallery
SVS TV Live
Calendar
Parents
Tips
Activities
Confidentiality of Student Education Records
Parents Right to Know Notification
Powerschool – Parents
Title 1 Funds
Student Pre-Enrollment Form
PTO
Parental Involvement Policy
School Parent Compact
Parenting!!! Does Not Come with Instructions!!
Students
Staff Directory
Bell Schedule
Lunch Menu
Student Dress Code
AIMS Testing
Student Survey (K-2)
Student Survey (3-12)
ICCP
Faculty
Faculty Email
Ultipro Portal
Powerschool – Teachers
Powerschool – Admin
Faculty Tech Support
Website Support
Facility Support
Faculty Resources
Field Trip Request Form
Donate
Donate Online
Contact SVS
Browse:
Home
Parents
Title 1 Funds
Title 1 Funds
written by Sarah Malburg • edited by Trent Lorcher • updated: October 5, 2011
brighthub.com • 
original online article
Understanding the Basics of Title 1 Funds
Title 1 funds aim to bridge the gap between low-income students and other students. The U.S. Department ofEducation provides supplemental funding to local school districts to meet the needs of at-risk and low-income students.
What’s it All About?
Most educators, parents and community members have heard the term Title 1 School thrown loosely around, but what is it? Title 1 is the nation’s oldest and largest federally funded program, according to the U.S. Department of Education. Annually, it provides over $14 billion to school systems across the country for students at risk of failure and living at or near poverty. In fact, over the course of the 2009-2010 school year, federal funding through this program was used by over 56,000 public schools nationwide in order for struggling students to meet state standards in a variety of subject areas.
Originally, the idea of Title 1 was enacted in 1965 under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. This policy committed to closing the achievement gap between low-income students and other students. The policy was rewritten in 1994 to improve fundamental goals of helping at-risk students. With the implementation of No Child Left Behind, schools must make adequate yearly progress on state testing and focus on best teaching practices in order to continue receiving funds.
What is the Purpose of Title 1 Funding?
According to the U.S. Department of Education, the purpose of Title 1 funding, “is to ensure that all children have a fair, equal, and significant opportunity to obtain a high quality education and reach, at minimum, proficiency on challenging state academic achievement standards and state academic assessments.”
The basic principles of Title 1 state that schools with large concentrations of low-income students will receive supplemental funds to assist in meeting student’s educational goals. Low-income students are determined by the number of students enrolled in the free and reduced lunch program. For an entire school to qualify for Title 1 funds, at least 40% of students must enroll in the free and reduced lunch program.
How are Title 1 Funds Used?
How to use Title 1 funds rests with each school. Title 1 funds can be used to improve curriculum, instructional activities, counseling, parental involvement, increase staff and program improvement. The funding should assist schools in meeting the educational goals of low-income students. According to the U.S. Department of Education, Title 1 funds typically support supplemental instruction in reading and math. Annually, this program reaches over six million students, primarily in the elementary grades.
Types of students that might be served by Title 1 funds include migrant students, students with limited English proficiency, homeless students, students with disabilities, neglected students, delinquent students, at-risk students or any student in need. Students can be classified as at-risk for numerous reasons. A few reasons they might be classified as at-risk students include: high number of absences, single-parent home, low academic performance or low-income family.
Guidance to Greatness
Due to the government’s federal initiatives to offer assistance to students in need such as Title 1 funding, our schools will become that much more equipped to help the same students achieve greatness in the future.
References
History of Title 1. U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare: Office of Education. 1969. Retrieved from
http://www.eric.ed.gov/PDFS/ED033459.pdf
Title 1: Improving the Academic Achievement of the disadvantaged. The U.S. Department of Education,
http://www2.ed.gov/policy/elsec/leg/esea02/pg1.html
Improving Basic Programs Operated by Local Educational Agencies: Title 1 Part A. U.S. Department of Education,
http://www2.ed.gov/programs/titleiparta/index.html
Programs and Services for Title 1. Vermont Department of Education,
http://education.vermont.gov/new/html/pgm_title1.html
– For more detailed information, visit the 
Arizona Department of Education
‘s webpage on Title 1 Funds 
here
.
– To download a copy of this article, click 
here
. 
 (70k)			
Tips
Activities
Title 1 Funds
Student Pre-Enrollment Form
Parents Parenting!!! Does Not Come with Instructions!!
PTO
	 © Copyright 2017 
Sequoia Charter School Secondary - 
Edkey® Inc.
982 Full House Lane,	    
Show Low,	    
AZ 
85901	  
 | Phone: 
(928) 537-1208	