Select a School					
Sequoia Schools
American Heritage Academy
Arizona Conservatory for Arts and Academics
Children First Leadership Academy
George Washington Academy
Pathfinder Academy
Sequoia Pathfinder Academy at Eastmark
Sequoia Charter School Elementary
Sequoia Charter School Secondary
Sequoia Choice - Arizona Distance Learning
Sequoia Choice Precision School
Sequoia Deaf School
Sequoia Lehi School
Sequoia Pathway Academy
Sequoia Village School
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
> Staff Login
Home
About SVS
Administration
Campus Map
Mindy Savoia’s Corner
Sequoia Wellness Policy
News
SVS TV
Photo Gallery
SVS TV Live
Calendar
Parents
Tips
Activities
Confidentiality of Student Education Records
Parents Right to Know Notification
Powerschool – Parents
Title 1 Funds
Student Pre-Enrollment Form
PTO
Parental Involvement Policy
School Parent Compact
Parenting!!! Does Not Come with Instructions!!
Students
Staff Directory
Bell Schedule
Lunch Menu
Student Dress Code
AIMS Testing
Student Survey (K-2)
Student Survey (3-12)
ICCP
Faculty
Faculty Email
Ultipro Portal
Powerschool – Teachers
Powerschool – Admin
Faculty Tech Support
Website Support
Facility Support
Faculty Resources
Field Trip Request Form
Donate
Donate Online
Contact SVS
For more news and articles about Sequoia Village School, 
please click here
.
AddThis Sharing Buttons
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Email
Share to More
Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Arizona school grades: F-rated charter schools could close
				Posted On: 2017-10-11 03:37 PM
From 
ABC15.com
...
				By Melissa Blasius for ABC 15 / abc15.com
PHOENIX - Arizona charter schools with F ratings could be forced to close their doors, according to school regulators.
This week the State Board of Education released new A-F letter grades for more than 1,800 schools across Arizona.
The ratings are based on standardized test scores, improvement in those scores, student attendance rates and other factors. Search for your school in the database [
on the ABC15.com website by clicking here
].
The letter grades are back this year, after several years off for the schools to adjust to the new AZMerit test.
"It's really a letter grade that has high stakes," said Eileen Sigmund, president and CEO of the Arizona Charter School Association.
Sigmund says charters performed better overall than district schools, but 11 charters received preliminary F ratings.
It could take several months for the ratings to be finalized.
The Arizona State Board for Charter Schools can revoke a school's charter for underperformance.
"Once the state's new letter grades have been finalized, any charter school subject to regulation by the Charter Board that receives a grade of D will be required to improve their academic performance," Board President Kathy Senseman said. "Any school that receives a F or fails to improve runs the risk of the Charter Board terminating its operations."
"Charter schools were formed to improve student achievement and provide communities with a choice in education, and that's why charter schools are at a different accountability standard," Sigmund said. "No child should sit in a chronically underperforming or failing school."
ABC15 reached out to several charter school operators who received a preliminary F. Some had concerns about the methodology behind the letter grades.
Half the charter schools currently have no ratings due to size of the school, alternative education programs, offering both K-8 and 9-12 classes on campus, or having a reason to appeal the rating.
"An accountability system is necessary, however this model is not the answer, as the bias and inequality have led to unintended consequences for many schools, including ours," said Mark Plitzuweit President and CEO of Edkey Inc./Sequoia Schools. His company has two schools with F grades.
Some of the affected charter schools' administrators say they are already making changes to avoid closure.
"Students are given additional time in the areas of Math and ELA," said Deborah Salas, Head of School at EduPreneurship Student Center in Phoenix. "We provide professional development for teachers and work together with our stakeholders to increase proficiency and readiness for the AZMerit."
Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
				Photos: 
AddThis Sharing Buttons
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Email
Share to More
SVS TV
Photo Gallery
SVS TV Live
Home
ICCP
About SVS
News
Calendar
Parents
Students
Faculty
Donate
Contact SVS
	 © Copyright 2017 
Sequoia Charter School Secondary - 
Edkey® Inc.
982 Full House Lane,	    
Show Low,	    
AZ 
85901	  
 | Phone: 
(928) 537-1208	