Select a School					
Sequoia Schools
American Heritage Academy
Arizona Conservatory for Arts and Academics
Children First Leadership Academy
George Washington Academy
Pathfinder Academy
Sequoia Pathfinder Academy at Eastmark
Sequoia Charter School Elementary
Sequoia Charter School Secondary
Sequoia Choice - Arizona Distance Learning
Sequoia Choice Precision School
Sequoia Deaf School
Sequoia Lehi School
Sequoia Pathway Academy
Sequoia Village School
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
> Staff Login
Home
About SVS
Administration
Campus Map
Mindy Savoia’s Corner
Sequoia Wellness Policy
News
SVS TV
Photo Gallery
SVS TV Live
Calendar
Parents
Tips
Activities
Confidentiality of Student Education Records
Parents Right to Know Notification
Powerschool – Parents
Title 1 Funds
Student Pre-Enrollment Form
PTO
Parental Involvement Policy
School Parent Compact
Parenting!!! Does Not Come with Instructions!!
Students
Staff Directory
Bell Schedule
Lunch Menu
Student Dress Code
AIMS Testing
Student Survey (K-2)
Student Survey (3-12)
ICCP
Faculty
Faculty Email
Ultipro Portal
Powerschool – Teachers
Powerschool – Admin
Faculty Tech Support
Website Support
Facility Support
Faculty Resources
Field Trip Request Form
Donate
Donate Online
Contact SVS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Previous
Next
Welcome to Sequoia Village School
Show Low, Arizona
"Building a Better World One Student at a Time"
			Sequoia Village is a K-12 tuition-free, Arizona charter school.  We offer highly qualified teachers and academic programs that exceed Arizona State Standards education.  Our school is small with only a few hundred students so our students get the individual attention they require.  See our School Report Card from the Arizona Department of Education.  We offer transportation and a free after school program including sports programs, music and tutoring.  We thank you for your interest in Sequoia Village. 			
Students in grades K-8 recieve classroom instruction by Highly Qualified Teachers. Small class sizes allow teachers to give the personalized academic attention your child needs. We offer a gifted program for students who are able to learn more quickly.
			Ask about our HS Distance Learning Lab.
Local Student Selected as a Disney Summer of Service Winner to Create Positive Change in Her Community 
				Posted On: 2017-11-27 08:43 PM
				Elizabeth Prouty, 12th Grade Student, Age 17 from Sequoia Village High School in Show Low has been awarded a Disney Summer of Service grant through YSA (Youth Service America). The grant will support Prouty in leading a community service proje				
Read more...
Jamie Beth Kulish, New Principal of George Washington Academy in Snowflake, AZ
A new principal is selected for George Washington Academy
				Posted On: 2017-11-09 03:22 PM
				Jamie Beth Kulish of Show Low has been selected for the position of principal at George Washington Academy in Snowflake.  Beth was the Assistant Principal at Sequoia Village School prior to this appointment.				
Read more...
Photo: Getty Images
Sequoia Village School puts an emphasis on small-group learning
				Posted On: 2017-11-06 02:49 PM
From 
AzCentral.com
...
				What if, instead of following the herd in your grade, you had the opportunity to learn and challenge yourself, independent of your grade or fellow students? If Sequoia Village School is any indication, it's a solution that works.				
Read more...
Photo Courtesy of Barbara Bruce, NEC as shared on WMICentral.com
Sequoia Village Goes Solar
				Posted On: 2017-11-03 08:02 AM
From 
White Mountain Independent
...
				On Sept. 5, the official ribbon cutting was held in the school's parking lot where a new parking structure provides shade and captures energy with solar roof panels. Sequoia Village has been using solar power for the school's primary source of electricity				
Read more...
Image from WMICentral.com
School letter grades face revamp amid criticism
				Posted On: 2017-11-02 10:16 AM
From 
White Mountain Independent
...
				"While this system is a good measurement of our academic progress, it does not measure and value culture and climate and the countless hours our dedicated staff invest in the education of our children," Mark Plitzuweit, CEO of Edkey Inc.				
Read more...
All Sequoia Village Parents - Please Fill Out the Following Survey
				Posted On: 2017-10-11 04:04 PM
				Sequoia Village asks that all parents K-8 and 9-12 fill out the appropriate survey to let us know how you feel about our school.  We thank you for your help in completing these surveys.				
Read more...
Copyright 2017 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Arizona school grades: F-rated charter schools could close
				Posted On: 2017-10-11 03:37 PM
From 
ABC15.com
...
				This week the State Board of Education released new A-F letter grades for more than 1,800 schools across Arizona. The ratings are based on standardized test scores, improvement in those scores, student attendance rates and other factors. 				
Read more...
Arizona School Grades for 2017 Partially Released
				Posted On: 2017-10-09 08:56 AM
				Arizona's new A-F Accountability System was designed to empower schools to achieve and increase success for their students. The system provides all publicly funded schools with feedback on areas of strength and those that may need additional focus.				
Read more...
Photo: Mark Henle, Mark Henle/The Republic
Robb: Charter school report is a flawed attack on school choice
				Posted On: 2017-09-29 01:08 PM
From 
AZCentral.com
...
				Robert Robb: The Grand Canyon Institute thinks some charter operators are making too much money. So what? This reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of the economic transaction that occurs between the state and charter school operators.				
Read more...
Photo from Tucson.com Article
Charlene Mendoza: Public charter schools do a lot, deserve respect
				Posted On: 2017-09-28 11:45 AM
From 
Tucson.com
...
				More headlines designed to create visual soundbites that overlook the complexities and undervalue the contributions made by public charter school teachers and leaders.				
Read more...
For more news and articles about Sequoia Village, 
please click here
.
 Arizona Common Core Standards
Information on Title I here
.
Information on Child Find here
.		
Sequoia Village High School has a four day schedule, Monday - Thursday.
Tutoring is available on Fridays.
Sequoia Village School Office Summer Hours Open to Public:
Monday and Wednesday:
12:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday and Thursday:
8:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.
You may also call for appointment:
(928) 537-1208
Sequoia Village Elementary is AdvancED Accredited.
Dec
21				
End of 2nd Quarter (46 Days) - Early Dismissal
8:00 am-12:00 pm
Village Elem, Village HS
Dec
22				
Winter Break - NO SCHOOL
All Day
Village Elem, Village HS
Jan
3				
School Resumes
All Day
Village Elem, Village HS
Jan
15				
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day - NO SCHOOL
All Day
Village Elem, Village HS
Feb
9				
School In Session - Edkey PD
All Day
Village Elem, Village HS
Feb
19				
Presidents Day - NO SCHOOL
All Day
Village Elem, Village HS
Your browser is incapable of playing the video content. Please update your browser to the latest version.
Watch all of the SVS TV Videos Here
Find Us on Facebook
	 © Copyright 2017 
Sequoia Charter School Secondary - 
Edkey® Inc.
982 Full House Lane,	    
Show Low,	    
AZ 
85901	  
 | Phone: 
(928) 537-1208	