Select a School					
Sequoia Schools
American Heritage Academy
Arizona Conservatory for Arts and Academics
Children First Leadership Academy
George Washington Academy
Pathfinder Academy
Sequoia Pathfinder Academy at Eastmark
Sequoia Charter School Elementary
Sequoia Charter School Secondary
Sequoia Choice - Arizona Distance Learning
Sequoia Choice Precision School
Sequoia Deaf School
Sequoia Lehi School
Sequoia Pathway Academy
Sequoia Village School
Spanish
Cantonese
French
German
Italian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Korean
Russian
Hindi
> Staff Login
Home
About SVS
Administration
Campus Map
Mindy Savoia’s Corner
Sequoia Wellness Policy
News
SVS TV
Photo Gallery
SVS TV Live
Calendar
Parents
Tips
Activities
Confidentiality of Student Education Records
Parents Right to Know Notification
Powerschool – Parents
Title 1 Funds
Student Pre-Enrollment Form
PTO
Parental Involvement Policy
School Parent Compact
Parenting!!! Does Not Come with Instructions!!
Students
Staff Directory
Bell Schedule
Lunch Menu
Student Dress Code
AIMS Testing
Student Survey (K-2)
Student Survey (3-12)
ICCP
Faculty
Faculty Email
Ultipro Portal
Powerschool – Teachers
Powerschool – Admin
Faculty Tech Support
Website Support
Facility Support
Faculty Resources
Field Trip Request Form
Donate
Donate Online
Contact SVS
Browse:
Home
Parents
PTO
PTO
		The Sequoia Village School PTO is a volunteer-based, nonprofit organization whose purpose is to promote and support the instructional focus of our teachers and administrators, and to advocate for all our children through consistent communication, parent and teacher involvement, and fundraising activities. 
The PTO has an active and dedicated group of volunteers who support this mission. Please feel free to contact any one of them to find out more about our programs or to offer assistance. 
PTO Structure
President:
Michele Carlyon
Vice President:
These PTO Positions are looking for volunteers!
            Join us for our 1st Site Council / PTO Meeting on August 15th when we will take nominations and vote on new PTO Officers.
Secretary:
PR:
Treasurer:
You can find the Sequoia Village School PTO on Facebook at: 
https://www.facebook.com/pages/Sequoia-Village-PTO/1533947736833540
Sequoia Village PTO News
It’s hard to believe that school will be back in session in one week.  I don’t know about you, but this summer just flew by!  I am super-excited about this upcoming school year.
First an introduction (or re-introduction if you already know me):
I am Michele Carlyon & I’ll be the Sequoia Village PTO President this year.  Last year I was the Treasurer, but since the former President (Teresa) is now working at the school, I stepped in to the President position.  I have three children that attend Sequoia (1st grade, 4th grade, & 10th grade) & we love it!
Upcoming August events:
August 4 (Monday):  Back-to-School/Meet-the-Teacher night. from 5pm – 8pm.  The PTO will have a table set up in the gym. 
We’ll have a few t-shirts available for purchase, and a few of last year’s yearbooks (we still have about a dozen – they’re $25 each).
I will hand out t-shirt order forms to each of the classrooms, if you’d like to purchase any other Sequoia Village t-shirts/hoodies.  Order forms (and payment) will be due by Friday, August 8 (or you can order/pay Monday night at the PTO table)
We will also have sign up sheets available for various volunteer opportunities.
My personal goal this year is to get more parents involved in the school and in the PTO.  We have a lot of great events planned, but we need parents involved for the events to be successful.
August 6 (Wednesday):  First Day of School.  School is in session from 8am – 3pm.
August 8 (Friday): T-shirt order forms will be due.  The shirts should be delivered to the school by Thursday, August 14.
August 13 (Wednesday): Papa John’s pizza night.  When you purchase pizza from Papa John’s Pizza & mention that you’re from Sequoia Village School, our school receives cash back.  You can go in an pick-up your pizza or you can have it delivered.  You can even order your pizza on-line!
August 15 (Friday):  Spirit Day!  Wear your Sequoia shirts & show school pride!
August 15 (Friday):  First PTO/Site Council meeting, 1:15pm at the school.  Come get the latest news about the PTO & the school, and let your voice be heard about these important issues.
August 15 (Friday):  [Friday, August 15 is a busy day!]  Popcorn & Quaker Chocolate Chip Chewy Bars will be on sale for 50c each in the morning.  We previously sold pickles (and popcorn) on Fridays, however the sodium content in pickles is too high for the new nutrition standards, so we’re going to try selling Chewy bars.  I have the nutrition information for the Chewy bars (from the package) if anyone would like it (just e-mail me).
August 29 (Friday): Popcorn & Chocolate Chip Chewy bar day! (only 50c each)
MARK YOUR CALENDAR
Although it’s not an ‘August event’, I also want to mention the upcoming Fall Festival and Yard Sale on Saturday, September 13.  The Yard Sale will run from 9am – noon, and the Festival will be from 10am – 2pm.
We will accept donations of items for the yard sale.  If you have items that you were planning on donating to charity, you should consider donating the items to the school.  Whatever donations that we have left after the festival/yard sale will be donated to the Navajo County Family Advocacy Center.
If you have items that are ready for donation, you can call me (Michele) to coordinate dropping them off at the school.  Please don’t bring in items without contacting me first.  The employees of the school will NOT be collecting the donations (unless you specifically coordinate with them).  As we get closer to the actual yard sale, I will have specific times that you can bring items in.  Prior to this, you need to contact me for drop-off.
Please make sure that the items that you donate are appropriate to sell in a school yard sale.The festival is going to be super fun!  We have already reserved an inflatable slide & an obstacle course.  We will have the reverse dunk tank up & running again.  We’ll have lots of fun carnival games & the ever-popular book exchange.  We’ll be selling hot dogs, cotton candy, & kettle corn.
And now, some links:
We (Sequoia Village PTO) have a new Facebook page.  The new link is:
https://www.facebook.com/pages/Sequoia-Village-PTO/1533947736833540
You can register your Safeway Club card at the following three links, and our school gets cash back for purchases at Safeway.  Once you register your card, you don’t have to do anything else (it’s automatic).  I put more information on the Facebook page or you can contact me if you have questions:
Box Tops 2ways2earn (electronic Box Tops – no clipping required)  
http://2ways2earn.com/
eScrip 
www.escrip.com/safeway
Labels for Education (Campbell’s Soup labels) 
www.elabelsforeducation.com
If you have any questions, or want to know about volunteer opportunities, feel free to contact me.  I am at the school a WHOLE lot, so if you see me around, please make sure to say, “Hi!”.
Here’s to a great school year!
Michele Carlyon
Sequoia Village PTO, President
(928) 251-4397 (h)
(928) 358-0296 (c)
michelecarlyon@cableone.net
PTO Calendar
PTO Forum
Tips
Activities
Title 1 Funds
Student Pre-Enrollment Form
Parents Parenting!!! Does Not Come with Instructions!!
PTO
	 © Copyright 2017 
Sequoia Charter School Secondary - 
Edkey® Inc.
982 Full House Lane,	    
Show Low,	    
AZ 
85901	  
 | Phone: 
(928) 537-1208	