School Support
Arizona School Tax Credit
    Keep your tax dollars local!Keep your tax dollars local!    
    Tax Credits may be any amount, up to the State’s allowable $400 (joint return) or $200 (individuals).
    Details:    
    The State of Arizona has a law that benefits taxpayers and school children alike.  A.R.S. 43-1089 allows a tax credit of $200 for individuals and $400 for married couples filing jointly, for fees or donations paid to a public school in support of extracurricular activities.    
    It costs you nothing. The beauty of the tax credit is that it costs you nothing, gives you a say in how your tax dollars are spent and reduces your bill by whatever amount you donate. Let’s say you donate $400 to an eligible school activity, you will reduce your Arizona state tax bill by $400. If you expect a refund, it will be $400 higher. If you don’t pay state income tax, you can’t reduce your liability below $0.    
    So many programs are in need of support. Last year, taxpayers like you helped cover the costs of field trips, music, art, library and physical education programs. Simply put, tax credit donations make possible a wide range of learning opportunities that our children would not otherwise have. And you don’t have to have a child in the school to benefit from this tax credit.    
    There has never been a better time – or way – for you to help Willow Creek Charter schoolchildren. Your donation must be made before December 31st to apply to the current year, so please write your check today.
Tax Credit Form
Donations
    Willow Creek Charter appreciates any monetary donations to help support our school. Any donation you give is tax deductible, because we are a non-profit, 501c3.
Volunteers
    We love our parent and family volunteers! Check with the front office if you would like to volunteer your time to help with fundraising, classrooms or anything else.
Fundraising
                Each year, there are opportunities for our school to earn FREE money through voluntary rewards programs. Over the years, with your help, we have received additional funds that have helped our school and we want to continue to earn as much as possible to help fund additional programs, equipment and other wonderful things for our school!            
                These are all free programs and easy to sign up for:            
Amazon Smile Program
Fry's Community Rewards Program
Box Tops for Education Program
Target Take Charge of Education Program
Label for Education Program
                We’ve provided an overview of each of these programs with this letter, along with instructions for how to register online or sample forms that can be mailed or faxed in. PLEASE NOTE THAT MOST OF THESE PROGRAMS REQUIRE THAT YOU SIGN UP EACH YEAR, even if you were registered the previous year, so be sure to sign-up again to ensure credit for our school (unless otherwise noted).            
                Please pass this along to friends and relatives to help as well – anyone can sign up and help our school through these programs.            
Amazon Smile
Sign Up Online
Fry's Community Rewards
Below is the information on the Fry's Food Stores program - please sign up for free today and pass along to friends and family - it will greatly help our school.
How to RE-ENROLL for thr Fry's Community Rewards Program:            
Go to 
http://FrysCommunityRewards.com
Click on 'Sign-In'
Enter your email and password and click 'sign in'
Click on your name (top right hand corner), under 'Account Summary' scroll down to "Community Rewards"
Click on 'Edit' under Community Rewards
Under Find Your Organization enter the NPO number (Our NPO# is 82142) or name of organization (Willow Creek Charter School) then select 'search'.
Under 'Select Your Organization' click on the circle next to your organization
Click on 'Enroll'
                 - If you have re-enrolled correctly, you should see a green box with 'Your enrollment in the Community Rewards Program has been updated. Thank you for participating!' You will also see the information listed under 'Community Rewards' on your Account Summary page.            
How to REGISTER for the 1st time for the Fry's Community Rewards Program            
Go to 
http://FrysCommunityRewards.com
Select ‘Sign-In’
Enter your email & password and select ‘sign in’. (This will be the email and password you created in step 1)
Select ‘My Account then select ‘Account Settings’ from drop down menu.
Click ‘edit’ under Community Rewards. If prompted, enter personal information.
Under Find Your Organization: Enter the NPO number or name of organization then select ‘search’.                
                Use NPO #82142
Under Select Your Organization: Select box next to your organization
Then select ‘save changes’.
If you have registered correctly, you should now see your organization information listed under ‘Community Rewards’ on your Account Summary page.
Box Tops for Education
                An easy way to earn cash for our school is to look for the Box Top on hundreds of participating products. Each one is work 10 cents to our school! Just clip them and turn them in to your student’s classroom.                
Participating Box Tops Products
Target Take Charge of Education
                We've discovered a terrific way to raise funds for our school. It's super easy, and all you have to do is use your Target® Visa® or Target® Card. We will receive a percentage of the amount of each purchase in the form of a cash donation from Target through the Take Charge of Education® program. It's easy.            
                Just visit 
target.com/tcoe
, or call 1-800-316-6142 to designate our school. So if you're going to Target anyway, please consider using your Target Visa or Target Card. A big thanks to those who are already doing their part to make a great school even better.            
Find out how much money our school has already received at target.com/tcoe
Grandparents, alumni, neighbors and friends can take part, too
            Search by our school ID # 113671            
Labels for Education
                Our school participates in the Labels for Education® program. Through the program we can collect UPCs and beverage/sauce caps from participating products to earn points that can be redeemed for FREE educational merchandise!            
                It’s easy to help – simply save UPCs and beverage/sauce caps from participating products and drop them off at Willow Creek Charter School.                
Participating products here
                Thank you for your support. Together with the Labels for Education program – we can build a better school for our children.            
      Copyright © 1999-2017    
    'A' Rated School    
    ZERO tolerance for bullying ensures a safe, family-like environment    
    Small Class Size offers a personalized education for each student    
    FREE after-school tutoring    
    FREE K-8 Public School (Full-day Kindergarten ONLY $9/day    
    Cutting Edge Technology engages students in learning and computer literacy    