Toggle navigation        
Home
About Us 
About Us
Our Founders
Board
Board Minutes
Board Meeting Schedule
Family Information 
Parent/Guardian Info
Student Life
SLACS Code of Conduct
Breakfast & Lunch Program
Child Find Policy
Wellness Policy
Homeless Policy
Events
Our Team 
Staff
Staff Directory
SLA in the News
Contact
Southwest Leadership Academy
the
SLA
vision
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School (SLA) will develop leaders by empowering scholars to change the factors that define their reality. Scholars will develop the leadership skills necessary to drive complete community rejuvenation in Southwest Philadelphia. In developing these skills, students will cultivate an array of leadership components that they can apply to community change on a global scale.
join
the
cause
The mission of SLA is to foster the next generation of community leaders by:	
♦ rigorous, research based academic instruction
♦ a unique Leadership Curriculum
♦ a single gender education model
♦ highly qualified teachers
Want to learn more?
Interested in understanding what SLA is all about? Feel free to contact us below with all of your question.
Contact
SLA
why
sla
exists
Southwest Philadelphia has suffered a long history of violence, poverty, and difficult social issues. The outlook for education has been just as bleak. The following outlines the educational outcomes for High School freshman in the year 2000 in Philadelphia High Schools.
1999-2000 9th graders
Four-year on-time high school graduates
Students graduating from high school in five or six years
the
success
plan
Unique Single-Gendered Classroom Model
A cornerstone of a Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School education is the unique model of teaching scholars in gender- specific classrooms. Supported by research from the world- renowned Gurian Institute, the single-gender model began at SLA because of the social differences between the sexes. This model has evolved into a core component of professional development based on a wealth of brain-based research. Throughout their time at SLA, scholars are educated under one roof but in single- gender classrooms, with facilitators trained to teach in ways that appeal to the nuances of each gender. The single-gender model also enables scholars to disengage from traditional societal pressures and focus on academic and leadership development.
Leadership Curriculum
Students at SLA dress like scholars, walk like scholars and know they are in school to learn, achieve, and become community leaders. Expectations are high, and students are challenged academically and empowered to become more productive at school, at home, and in their neighborhood. The Leadership Curriculum, embraced by all SLA staff members and instilled in each scholar, focuses on the following competencies:
♦ Leadership
♦ Respect
♦ Self-Awareness
♦ Self-Control
♦ Responsibility
♦ Civic Engagement
♦ Pride
♦ Abundant Thinking
Southwest Leadership Academy
(215)729-1939
7101 Paschall Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19142
Share
Twitter
Hide Tweet (admin)
Add this ID to the plugin's Hide Specific Tweets setting: 