Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon
Technology Academy High
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
About Us
Mission Statement
Administration
Staff Directory
Directions
Education Protection Account
Safety Plan
LCAP
Charter Renewal Petition
Brown Act 2016-17
Careers
Enrollment
Apply Online
Pre-Application
Students
ASB
All-Stars After School Program
Bell Schedule
Check Grades
Counselor Connection
College Resoures
Alumni Resources
Food Menu
Tutoring
Visitor Policy
Parents
Parent / Student Handbook
Attendance
Check Grades
Contact Teachers
Parent Engagement
Parent Newsletter
School Calendar 17-18
Governance
Town Hall
School Coordinating Council
School Board of Directors
Policy for Posting Board Agendas
Contact Us
 Staff Only
 Calendar
 Naviance
 Parent Engagement
 Search
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Instagram
School Policies
			 » School Policies			
School Policies
		VISITOR POLICY
The safety and security of staff and students at Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon Technology Academy High School is of utmost importance. A critical part of creating a safe campus environment is for the administration, as well as those individuals or classrooms receiving visitors, to have advance knowledge of all visitors. School administration must know
at all times who is on campus and reserves the right to refuse entry to any visitor. The following procedures for visiting Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon Technology Academy High School will be strictly followed.
CLOSED CAMPUS
Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon Technology Academy High School is a closed campus. All students are required to remain on school grounds during the regularly scheduled school day, including the lunch period. It is unlawful for anyone to take a student away from school during the regular school day without first obtaining proper permission from a designated school official.
VISITOR POLICY, SIGN IN, AND VERIFICATION
Principals are responsible for managing involvement of volunteers and visitors, and for ensuring that the activities of visitors and volunteers do not result in undue disruption of the instructional program. It is also important that the presence of visitors and volunteers does not contribute to safety or security issues for students and staff members or for the visitors
themselves.
ALL CAMPUS VISITORS MUST:
• Request an appointment for a visitation date and time from the office staff after entering the school office. As much advance notice as possible should be given, but no visitor can be guaranteed entry to the campus on a specific date and time.
• Sign into the visitor’s log immediately upon entrance, providing all requested information (e.g., visitor’s name, date, time, name, purpose of visit, other additional information the School may require). This is for the safety of students, staff, as well as the individual in case of emergency. Failure to provide information will be grounds for denial of access.
• Show identification. Failure to provide information will be grounds for denial of access.
• Complete a visitor’s badge and obtain the principal/designee’s approval before proceeding. The visitor’s badge may include the following information: visitor name, date, time, destination and office approval. You may be required to wait depending on the principal’s/designee’s availability.
• Wear a visitor’s badge at all times during your stay at the school.
• Keep observation of classroom activity to a particular purpose and reasonable frequency, as determined by the School.
• Follow the established procedures for scheduling an appointment with the teacher(s).
• Return the visitor’s badge to the school office before leaving the campus and sign out. You must indicate on the visitor’s log the time you are leaving the school.
SOME IMPORTANT RULES FOR ALL VISITORS:
• The staff person/student you are visiting must be on campus that day and aware of the visit.
• Visitors must be escorted by designated school personnel at all times on campus.
• Do not interfere with any school activity during the visitation. Visiting the School is a privilege, not a right.
• Enter and leave the classroom as quietly as possible when class is in session.
• While class is in session, do not converse with students, teachers, and/or instructional aides during the visitation unless explicitly permitted.
Failure to follow any of these basic procedures may result in a visitor not receiving authorization to enter the building and/or being barred from future visits.	
Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon
Technology academy High School
10720 Wilmington Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90059
Phone: 
(323) 744-2122
Fax: (323) 744-2123 
Select Language
​
▼
| Login
 Powered by Edlio
Calendar
Parent Portal
Homework
Directions
Original text
Contribute a better translation