Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon
Technology Academy High
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
About Us
Mission Statement
Administration
Staff Directory
Directions
Education Protection Account
Safety Plan
LCAP
Charter Renewal Petition
Brown Act 2016-17
Careers
Enrollment
Apply Online
Pre-Application
Students
ASB
All-Stars After School Program
Bell Schedule
Check Grades
Counselor Connection
College Resoures
Alumni Resources
Food Menu
Tutoring
Visitor Policy
Parents
Parent / Student Handbook
Attendance
Check Grades
Contact Teachers
Parent Engagement
Parent Newsletter
School Calendar 17-18
Governance
Town Hall
School Coordinating Council
School Board of Directors
Policy for Posting Board Agendas
Contact Us
 Staff Only
 Calendar
 Naviance
 Parent Engagement
 Search
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Instagram
Alumni: Let's Stay Connected!
The FAFSA/Dream Act Application is now open! This application needs to be renewed every year. It is highly recommended that you fill it out as soon as possible. Need help? No worries, Simon Tech has got you covered!
There will be a workshop on Tuesday, October 10 from 4 to 6 PM. If you are able to attend, please RSVP here: 
https://goo.gl/forms/jjmdATFs3qLZEXUy1
If you are not able to attend, you can schedule an appointment. In addition, I will also be making local college visits throughout the month of October and November.
College Textbooks!!!
When buying textbooks, here are a few tips you might want to keep in mind.
1. If classes have not started yet, you can visit the bookstore to check out what textbooks your professor might be using. By doing so, you can start comparing prices with websites or other bookstores.
2. There are some professors who will email you the syllabus for which then you can use to see if you are going to be using the textbook for a short period of time. The syllabus might also tell you if your professor is going to be putting a book on reserve at your school's library.
3. Is your English class requiring you to purchase a literature book? You might want to check your local library to see if they have a copy of it. Not quite sure what library has it? Go to 
Worldcat.org
 to search up your book! 
4. You will find students around the bookstore or even inside trying to sell their old textbooks. Sometimes students post flyers around campus informing students what textbooks they are selling along with their phone nuber to contact them.
Here are a few sites you might want to check out too! Some of these websites give you the option to purchase,borrow or upload a digital copy of the book. 
1.
 Chegg
2. 
Campus Book Rentals
3. 
Amazon
4. 
Textbook.com
5. 
Better World Books
6. 
Allbookstores.com
﻿
The Alumni Blog!
Am excited to say, that I have started a blog! 
I will be typing 
about random topics, college lessons 
and posting pictures of 
when I go to different campuses to visit you. I hope that it is 
yet another way to stay connected. Click on the image or 
here 
to check the blog!
Welcome Alumni  
Hello Huskies! 
This site has been developed in order 
to stay in communication 
and offer assistance
as you work toward making your dreams come true!
I will be sending newsletters to you via e-mail and remind. If you are not receving it, 
you can subscribe here, on this site, by typing in your email and/or phone number.
Also, this site has a place for you to share your thoughts or ask a question 
or concern. 
(I will do my best to answer as soon as possible).
Not Receiving the Newsletter?
Sign up here!
Am excited to say, that I will start a blog. 
I will be typing about random topics, college lessons 
and posting pictures of when I go to different campuses to visit you.
Let's stay connected!
     Looking forward to hear from you!
Completed a year of college? Do you want to share a story
or a lesson that you learn in college? Share it 
here!
Are 
you looking for a job, an internship or volunteer opportunity? Need assistance with writing a Resume or job hunting? Well, you've come to the right place! This is where I will be posting useful links and information that can definitely help you complete that mission!
Resume
Get tips and advice on how to write a Resume: 
https://www.gcflearnfree.org/resumewriting/resume-tips-and-strategies/1/
Get access to a resume workbook designed for high school students, but the advice and strategies are still applicable: 
http://damngood.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/resume-workbook-highschool.pdf
A step by step colorful guide on how 
to write an effective resume:
http://www.twenty19.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/
Twenty19_smart_student_resume_guide.pdf
A guide that assist with writing a resume and cover letter: 
http://ocs.fas.harvard.edu/files/ocs/files/undergrad_resumes_and_cover_letters.pdf
 Finding Jobs
The Los Angeles County Library has library items and online resources that might help you with your job search. Check them out here!: 
http://www.colapublib.org/jobhelp/
College students, check out the career center on your campus. They provide students with abundant of resources which include: 
resume, interview and career workshops, on and off campus job opportunities. In addition, you might want to check the online resource/website on you school website that is only accessible to students who are attending there.
Not sure what career you would like to pursue? Looking for a job or need assistance with writing a resume or even getting ready for an interview? Check this website out! It provides you with a lot of resources including assessments that you can take to help you see what careers best fit your interests and skills: 
https://www.careeronestop.org/GetMyFuture/default.aspx?frd=true
Internships and Intern Jobs
Looking for an opportunity to explore your interests and career choices? Do you want to acquire skills and gain experience? 
Check the following links out!
http://www.internships.com/student
http://www.internshipfinder.com
Volunteer Opportunities
  Volunteering gives you the opportunity to not 
only sharpen your abilities and skills, but    
to also make a positive contribution to your community!
Check out the following links!
https://www.volunteermatch.org
http://www.laworks.com
http://www.pointsoflight.org/handsonnetwork
https://www.idealist.org/en/?sort=relevance&type=ALL
https://www.allforgood.org
Scholarships For College Students
KidGuard for Education’ Essay Scholarship
Join us in the movement to raise awareness for online safety.
At KidGuard, we are passionate about online safety. The ‘KidGuard for Education’ Essay Scholarship is part of KidGuard’s effort to bring awareness and inspire solutions on issues such as cyberbullying, online predators, teen suicide and childhood depression in the age of technology. Please join us in this conversation and in our movement.  
ELIGIBILITY: All undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled at a full-time program
AWARD AMOUNT: The winning candidate will receive $1000 scholarship award amount. The finalist will receive $500 scholarship award amount. 
DEADLINE: December 1st, 2017, 11:59 PM (Pacific Time)
HOW TO APPLY:
Choose a prompt from below and write a well thought out essay
Does social media really "connect" us? Explain.
Should teachers/schools be able to regulate their student's social media accounts? Explain.
Paste your essay and fill out our short form here: 
KidGuard for Education Essay Survey Questions
For more information click here!
Fontana Transport Inc. Scholars Program
We are looking for low income, underrepresented, and first generation college prospects who are passionate about furthering their education as a means to help out their family, community and themselves. We want to be able to find, sponsor and guide leaders who are determined to succeed by all means possible despite their struggles and lack of sources due to the community they come from. We want to be part of a students' support system throughout their college career and guide them to a successful future.
Candidates must be pursuing a full time undergraduate degree at any 4 year university in the following concentrations:
Transportation
Math
Science
Engineering
Architecture
Environmental Design
Pre-Med
Psychology
Spanish Language/Literature
Eligibility: 
A
pplicant does not have to be a U.S. citizen
Must have a minimum 3.5 weighted GPA and proof of attending college as an undergraduate student beginning Fall 2018. 
Recommendation by a faculty member is optional, but highly suggested.
Application: Not yet available
Deadline: March 2018
For more information click here!
The Hispanic Scholarship Fund College Scholarships
HSF/ General College Scholarships are designed to assist students of Hispanic heritage in obtaining a college degree. Scholarships are available on a competitive basis to graduating high school seniors, community college transfer students, undergraduate students and graduate students.
Applicants must be:
Hispanic heritage
Have a minimum of 3.0 GPA for high school students.
A minimum of 2.5 GPA for college and graduate students.
Plan to enroll full-time in an accredited not-for-profit, four-year university or graduate school during the fall of the scholarship cycle year.
U.S. Citizen, permanent legal resident, DACA or eligible non-citizen. 
For more information or to apply, click here!
Application Status: Not yet available
Deadline: April 2018
Amount: Varies
Let's Stay Connected!
simontech_alumni                  
https://www.facebook.com/simontechalumni
Home
Scholarships For Current Huskies: 9-12
College Prep Class/Dual Enrollment Program
									Alumni: Let's Stay Connected!								
Career Exploration Center
Personal Statement Assignment: Resources
"Your attitude determines your direction"
"Nothing is impossible; the word itself says, "I'M POSSIBLE!"--Audrey Hepburn
The best way to predict your future is to create it!--Abraham Lincoln
Alliance Cindy & Bill Simon
Technology academy High School
10720 Wilmington Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90059
Phone: 
(323) 744-2122
Fax: (323) 744-2123 
Select Language
​
▼
| Login
 Powered by Edlio
Calendar
Parent Portal
Homework
Directions
Original text
Contribute a better translation