Watts Learning Center
Skip to main content
About Us
Leadership
Co-Founders
Board President
Board of Directors
Executive Director
Directors
Starting from Scratch
Vision/Mission
Philosophy
Commitments
Perspectives
Guiding All Relationships
Goals
Schools
Elementary School
Middle School
Our Approach
The Watts Learning Center Way
WLC Approach to Teaching
Perspective on Learning
Core Practices
Dialogue
Interaction
WLC Curriculum
Central Concepts
Questions
Core Experiences
Problems
Solutions
Systematic Decision Making
Our Protocols
Defined Problems
What We're Learning 
Assessment
Substantive Learning
Evidence
Excellence in Learning
Representative Examples
Learning Forums
Alumni
WLC Alumni Committee
Preserving Tradition
Description
Tracking Over Time
Impact & Evidence
Resources
Publications
Our Tools
Professional Development
Community
Collaboratorium
Partnerships
Projects
Supporters
Contact Us
Careers
Visit Our Schools
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
The Watts Learning Center (WLC) will be a world-class, child-centered, K-8 institution of learning with strong ties to families and the community
Executive Director
Executive Director
Greetings,
I am excited to join the Watts Learning Center, a K-8 Institution with a collective commitment to provide a World Class Education for the long-term benefit of our children and families, the Watts community, and the society.
In our schools, we are engaged in continuous forward movement and thinking to build upon our tradition and record of outstanding student performance of the past. In our schools, the commitments we maintain are much more than just outstanding student performance…. We are committed to the socialization of our children and to making global citizens!
Our graduates are particular people… who think in particular ways, who are ethical, who are self-confident, who have an agency about themselves and who understand how to learn, who possess the tools of language to perceive, describe and interpret their experiences and the world around them.
Our assurance to this vision and image is based on the commitment of our professional staff in our schools to this work. We are engaged in continuous thinking and learning, reimagining education! We are making the ‘Watts Learning Center Way.’ At its core, every child in our schools is known and understood, respected and valued as an independent thinking person.
Accordingly, my commitment is to our children and families, the Watts Community, and to learning itself. We are committed to fostering the conditions in our schools for collaboration and collective participation among our children, families, teachers and staff and the community. Our goal is to advance the quality and substance of learning for every child in our schools, consistent with a World Class Education!
This moral commitment has been the basis of my career and is grounded in principles of democracy and learning, as well as working with principals and teachers to improve the conditions for learning in P-12 schools in different places over time.
Over 100 years ago, John Dewey made a number of observations about children and learning that remain consistent today in excellent schools:
The child is the starting point, the center and the end
Subject matter can never be got into the child from without
All knowledge is the product of special acts of inquiry
In conclusion, I look forward to working together to advance learning for every child with verifiable evidence.
Respectfully,
Jared R. Lancer
jlancer@wlccms.org
Co-Founders
Board President
Board of Directors
									Executive Director								
Directors
Starting from Scratch
Vision/Mission
Philosophy
Commitments
Perspectives
Guiding All Relationships
Goals
Careers
Visit Our Schools
Watts Learning Center Elementary School,310 W 95th StLos Angeles, CA 90003Phone: (323) 754-9900
Watts Learning Center Middle School, 8800 S San Pedro St Los Angeles, CA 90003 Phone: (323) 565-4800
Board of Directors
Search
Google Translate
Arabic
Bulgarian
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Filipino
Finnish
French
German
Greek
Hebrew
Hindi
Italian
Japanese
Korean
Norwegian
Polish
Portuguese
Romanian
Russian
Spanish
Swedish
Vietnamese