Base URL: valorcollegiate.org
Parent URL: https://valorcollegiate.org/diverse-design-schools-show-integration-looks-like-matters-kids/
File URL: HTTPS://CIVILRIGHTSPROJECT.UCLA.EDU/LEGAL-DEVELOPMENTS/COURT-DECISIONS/STATEMENT-OF-AMERICAN-SOCIAL-SCIENTISTS-OF-RESEARCH-ON-SCHOOL-DESEGREGATION-SUBMITTED-TO-US-SUPREME-COURT/AMICUS_PARENTS_V_SEATLE.PDF
================================================================ 

Nos. 05-908 & 05-915 

Supreme Court of the United States 

In The 

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

PARENTS INVOLVED IN COMMUNITY SCHOOLS, 

v. 

Petitioner,        

SEATTLE SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1, et al., 

Respondents.        

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

CRYSTAL D. MEREDITH, Custodial Parent and 

Next Friend of JOSHUA RYAN MCDONALD, 

v. 

Petitioner,        

JEFFERSON COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION, et al., 
Respondents.        

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

On Writs Of Certiorari To 

The United States Courts Of Appeal 
For The Ninth And Sixth Circuits 

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

BRIEF OF 553 SOCIAL SCIENTISTS AS 

AMICI CURIAE IN SUPPORT OF RESPONDENTS 

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

LILIANA M. GARCES 
  Counsel of Record 
124 Mt. Auburn Street 
Suite 500 North 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
(617) 496-1560 

================================================================ 

COCKLE LAW BRIEF PRINTING CO. (800) 225-6964 

OR CALL COLLECT (402) 342-2831 

 

i 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
iii 
1 
2 
4 

 

5 

4 

TABLE OF AUTHORITIES...........................................  
INTEREST OF AMICI CURIAE ...................................  
SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT ........................................  
ARGUMENT...................................................................  
I.    THE  RESEARCH  FINDINGS  PRESENTED 
 
IN  THE  APPENDED  SOCIAL  SCIENCE 
STATEMENT  SHOULD 
INFORM  THE 
COURT’S ANALYSIS ...................................... 
II.    RACIALLY  INTEGRATED  SCHOOLS  PRO-
VIDE  SIGNIFICANT  BENEFITS  FOR  STU-
DENTS AND COMMUNITIES......................... 
A.    Racial  Integration  Promotes  Cross-Racial 
Understanding and Reduces Racial Preju-
dice ...............................................................  
Improves  Critical 
Thinking  Skills  and  Academic  Achieve-
ment .............................................................  
C.    Racial  Integration  Improves  Life  Oppor-
tunities .........................................................  
D.    Racially  Integrated  Schools  Better  Pre-
pare  Students  for  a  Diverse  Workforce, 
Reduce  Residential  Segregation,  and  In-
crease Parental Involvement in Schools ....  
  III.    RACIALLY  ISOLATED  MINORITY  SCHOOLS 
HAVE  HARMFUL  EDUCATIONAL  IMPLI-
CATIONS FOR STUDENTS..............................   10 
A.    Racial Isolation is Associated with Higher 
Teacher  Turnover  and  Lower  Teacher 
Quality .........................................................   10 

Integration 

B.    Racial 

7 

8 

9 

6 

ii 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS – Continued 

Page 

B.    Racially  Isolated  Schools  Have  Concen-

trated Educational Disadvantages ...............   11 

C.    Racial  Isolation  Limits  Access  to  Peers 
Who  Can  Positively  Influence  Academic 
Learning.......................................................   11 

D.    Racial  Isolation  is Associated  with  Lower 

Educational Outcomes ................................   12 

  IV.    RACE-CONSCIOUS STUDENT ASSIGNMENT 
POLICIES  ARE  NECESSARY  TO  MAINTAIN 
RACIALLY DESEGREGATED SCHOOLS.........   12 
A.    Race-Neutral Choice Policies Have Led to 
Racial  Isolation  and  Greater  Segregation 
in Schools .....................................................   13 

B.    Race-Neutral  Policies  that  Rely  on  Socio-
economic  Status  are  Less  Effective  than 
Race-Conscious  Policies  in  Attaining  Ra-
cial  Diversity...............................................   13 

C.    School  Districts  that  No  Longer  Consider 
Race in Their Student Assignment Policies 
Have  Experienced  Resegregation  and  Its 
Harmful Consequences ...............................   14 
CONCLUSION ...............................................................   15 
 

iii 
 

TABLE OF AUTHORITIES 

Page 

CASES 
Brown v. Board of Educ., 347 U.S. 483 (1954)...... 2, 4, 5, 10 
Freeman v. Pitts, 503 U.S. 467 (1992) ................................. 4 
Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 306 (2003)............................ 4 
Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629 (1950) ................................ 8 
 
STATUTES 
20 U.S.C. § 6312(c)(1)(L) (2006)..........................................11 
20 U.S.C. § 6319(a) (2006) ..................................................11 

1 

INTEREST OF AMICI CURIAE 

 
  Pursuant  to  Supreme  Court  Rule  37,  the  undersigned 
social scientists submit this brief as amici curiae in support of 
Respondents Jefferson County Board of Education, et al. (No. 
05-915) and Seattle School District No. 1, et al. (No. 05-908).1 
 
  Amici curiae are social scientists and scholars who have 
extensively  studied  issues  related  to  school  desegregation, 
diversity  and  race  relations  in  K-12  schools.  Collectively, 
amici include 553 researchers from 42 states and the District 
of  Columbia  and  201  different  educational  institutions  and 
research  centers  throughout  the  United  States,  extending 
across numerous disciplines, including education, psychology, 
sociology, economics, political science, and history.2 
  Amici  have  an  interest  in  presenting  to  the  Court 
 
research  findings  that  address  the  educational  considera-
tions  that  local  school  boards  take  into  account  as  they 
design  and  implement  student  assignment  policies.  To 
present  the  Court  with  this  research  –  which  bears  di-
rectly on whether the student assignment policies at issue 
satisfy  constitutional  scrutiny  –  amici  prepared  a  social 
science  statement  summarizing  the  evidence.  The  state-
ment  is  appended  to  this  brief.  The  body  of  this  brief 
highlights the key research findings. 

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

 

 
 
1  All parties have filed with the Court their blanket consent for the 
filing of amicus curiae briefs in these cases. Pursuant to Supreme Court 
Rule  37.6,  counsel  for  amici  curiae  certifies  that  this  brief  was  not 
written in whole or in part by counsel for any party, and that no person 
or entity other than amici curiae or their counsel has made a monetary 
contribution to the preparation or submission of this brief.  
2  A  list  of  amici  is  included  in  the Appendix.  Institutional  affilia-
 
tion is provided for identification purposes only and does not reflect the 
views of the institution. 

 

2 

SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT 

 
  The  body  of  research  that  has  developed  since  the 
Court  declared  government-sanctioned  school  racial 
segregation unconstitutional in Brown v. Board of Educa-
tion,  347  U.S.  483  (1954),  supports  three  interrelated 
conclusions: (1) racially integrated schools provide signifi-
cant  benefits  to  students  and  communities,  (2)  racially 
isolated schools have harmful educational implications for 
students,  and  (3)  race-conscious  policies  are  necessary  to 
maintain racial integration in schools.3 Amici submit that 
these research findings are relevant and supportive of the 
educational  judgments  that  underlie  the  student  assign-
ment policies at issue in the instant cases. 

  Racially  integrated  schools  prepare  students  to  be 
 
effective  citizens  in  our  pluralistic  society,  further  social 
cohesion,  and  reinforce  democratic  values.  They  promote 
cross-racial  understanding,  reduce  prejudice,  improve 
critical  thinking  skills  and  academic  achievement,  and 
enhance life opportunities for students of all races. These 
benefits  are  maximized  when  schools  are  structured  in 
ways  that  optimize  intergroup  contact.  Communities  also 
benefit from a potential workforce that is better prepared 
for a global economy, reduced residential segregation, and 
increased  parental  involvement  in  schools  –  all  of  which 
increase the stability of communities. 

 

 
 
3  As  noted  in  the  appended  statement,  desegregation  generally 
describes  the  creation of schools containing substantial percentages of 
students from two or more racial or ethnic groups. Integration refers to 
the  positive  implementation  of  desegregation  with  equal  status  for  all 
groups and respect for all cultures. 

3 

  While  there  are  examples  of  academically  successful 
 
schools  with  high  concentrations  of  nonwhite  students, 
more  often  than  not,  segregated  minority  schools  offer 
profoundly  unequal  educational  opportunities.  This 
inequality  is  manifested  in  many  ways,  including  fewer 
qualified, experienced teachers, greater instability caused 
by  rapid  turnover  of  faculty,  fewer  educational  resources, 
and limited exposure to peers who can positively influence 
academic  learning.  No  doubt  as  a  result  of  these  dispari-
ties, measures of educational outcomes, such as scores on 
standardized  achievement  tests  and  high  school  gradua-
tion  rates,  are  lower  in  schools  with  high  percentages  of 
nonwhite students. 

 
  Race-conscious  student  assignment  policies  are 
necessary  to  maintain  racially  integrated  schools.  Evi-
dence  shows  that  choice  assignment  policies  that  do  not 
consider  race  as  a  factor  in  student  assignments  tend  to 
result  in  racially  homogeneous  schools  or  lead  to  greater 
segregation;  race-neutral  policies  that  rely  on  socioeco-
nomic status are not as effective in attaining racial diver-
sity;  and  school  districts  that  have  eliminated  race  as  a 
consideration  in  student  assignment  policies  have  experi-
enced resegregation and the harmful consequences associ-
ated with racially isolated schools. 

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

 

4 

ARGUMENT 

I. 

THE  RESEARCH  FINDINGS  PRESENTED  IN 
THE APPENDED SOCIAL SCIENCE STATEMENT 
SHOULD INFORM THE COURT’S ANALYSIS. 

 
  The  Court  should  consider  the  relevant  research 
findings  discussed  herein  and  in  the  appended  social 
science  statement  in  its  evaluation  of  the  local  school 
districts’ student assignment policies. In Brown v. Board of 
Education, 347 U.S. 483, 494 n.11 (1954), the Court cited 
with approval the research presented in the social science 
statement  submitted  in  the  case.  Since Brown,  the  Court 
has turned to social science research in school desegrega-
tion  cases.  See,  e.g.,  Freeman  v.  Pitts,  503  U.S.  467,  495 
(1992).  Recently,  in  Grutter  v.  Bollinger,  the  Court  made 
clear that scientific evidence can play a significant role in 
shaping  the  answers  to  core  questions  of  constitutional 
analysis. 539 U.S. 306, 330-31 (2003). 

 
  The  extensive  body  of  research  evidence  that  has 
developed  since  the  Court’s  decision  in  Brown  documents 
the  benefits  of  racial  integration  and  elaborates  on  the 
harms  associated  with  racial  isolation  in  K-12  education. 
Evidence also shows the effectiveness of various policies in 
maintaining racial integration. This research supports the 
determination  that  the  school  boards  have  a  compelling 
interest  to  promote  racial  integration  and  prevent  racial 
isolation  through  choice-based  school  assignment  policies 
that consider race as a factor.4 

 

 
4  Amici are aware of two amici curiae briefs in support of petition-
ers  that  present  opposite  conclusions.  See  Brief  of  David  J.  Armor, 
Abigail  Thernstrom,  and  Stephan  Thernstrom  as  Amici  Curiae  in 
Support of Petitioners; Brief of Amici Curiae Drs. Murphy, Rossell and 
Walberg in Support of Petitioners. Amici do not intend  to address the 

(Continued on following page) 

 

5 

II.  RACIALLY INTEGRATED SCHOOLS PROVIDE 
SIGNIFICANT  BENEFITS  FOR  STUDENTS 
AND COMMUNITIES. 

 
  As  the  Court  recognized  in  Brown,  education  “is  the 
very  foundation  of  good  citizenship”  and  “a  principal 
instrument  in  awakening  the  child  to  cultural  values,  in 
preparing  him  for  later  professional  training,  and  in 
helping  him  to  adjust  normally  to  his  environment.”  347 
U.S. at 493. For schools to realize this purpose, they must 
prepare students with the knowledge and skills needed to 
succeed in our increasingly diverse society. The realization 
of  these  goals  depends  not  only  on  preparing  students 
academically, but in promoting cross-racial understanding 
and  tolerance  among  all  groups  and  improving  the  life 
opportunities  of  all  students.  Policies  that  promote  these 
skills and opportunities in turn foster social cohesion and 
reinforce democratic values in our diverse citizenry. 

 

 
specific  arguments  in  those  briefs  except  to  note  that  they  rely  on 
highly selective studies and outdated research to support their conclu-
sions. For specific criticisms of the Armor et al. and Murphy et al. amici 
curiae briefs, see Brief of the American Educational Research Associa-
tion  as  Amicus  Curiae  in  Support  of  Respondents  (discussing  incom-
plete  analyses  of  the  research  literature,  flaws  in  methodological 
critiques, and reliance on studies that are outdated or inconsistent with 
more recent research findings).  

6 

A.  Racial  Integration  Promotes  Cross-Racial 
Understanding  and  Reduces  Racial  Preju-
dice. 

 
  Positive  interactions  with  individuals  of  different 
backgrounds  in  integrated  school  settings  provide  impor-
tant experiences necessary to promote cross-racial under-
standing  and  reduce  racial  prejudice  and  bias.  Recent 
studies  have  revealed  that  students  who  have  greater 
levels of interracial contact have more tolerant and inclu-
sive viewpoints about individuals of different racial groups 
than students who have less interracial contact. Students 
who  have  greater  levels  of  intergroup  contact  are  also 
more  likely  to  evaluate  exclusion  of  individuals  on  the 
basis of group membership as wrong and harmful. Greater 
levels of contact among different groups are thus typically 
associated  with  lower  levels  of  intergroup  prejudice  and 
larger  reductions  occur  when  optimal  conditions  for 
intergroup contact are established. App. at 3-4, 7-11. 

 
  Cross-racial experiences are highly valued by students 
and teachers. A majority of high school students in racially 
diverse  school  districts,  including  students  in  the  Seattle 
and  Jefferson  County  school  districts,  have  reported  that 
interracial  schooling  experiences  have  been  valuable  and 
have  made  them  better  prepared  to  live  and  work  in 
diverse  communities.  Likewise,  a  majority  of  teachers 
with  experience 
integrated  schools  have 
reported  the  benefits  of  diversity  for  student  learning,  as 
well  as  for  productive  economic  and  civic  participation 
in  society.  The  opportunities  to  learn  and  develop  in 
multiracial  settings  are  particularly  valuable  for  white 

in  racially 

7 

students, who, on average, are in the most racially isolated 
neighborhoods and schools. App. at 5-7. 

 
  Schools are better able to achieve these benefits when 
they create racially integrated environments that allow for 
direct interaction among individuals from different races. 
Programs  that  rely  on  the  transmission  of  information 
about other groups rather than on direct interaction may 
have  some  positive  short-term  effects,  but  studies  show 
that they have minimal impact on the long-term behavior 
of students. App. at 4-5. 

 

B.  Racial Integration Improves Critical Think-

ing Skills and Academic Achievement. 

 
  Learning  in  racially  integrated  classrooms,  where 
students have different backgrounds and experiences that 
inform  the  perspectives  they  share  in  class,  promotes 
complex thinking. Because students of different races and 
ethnic  backgrounds  often  bring  different  cultural  knowl-
edge  and  social  perspectives  into  school,  classrooms  with 
racially  diverse  students  are  more  likely  to  enhance 
critical thinking by exposing students to new information 
and  understandings.  Both  experimental  and  field  studies 
in  higher  education,  for  example,  have  concluded  that 
interactions  with  a  diverse  group  of  students  can  lead  to 
higher and deeper levels of thinking. App. at 12-13. 

 
  Longstanding  research  on  academic  achievement  has 
concluded  that  there  are  modest  positive  effects  on  the 
achievement  levels  of  African  American  students  who 
attend  desegregated  schools. App.  at  13-17. Although  the 
impact  of  desegregation  on  achievement  varies  based  on 
context,  the  positive  effects  appear  stronger  for  younger 

8 

students,  and  when  desegregation  is  voluntary,  as  is  the 
situation in these cases. App. at 14. Recent reviews of the 
more  limited  literature  on  the  academic  achievement  of 
Latino students in desegregated schools suggest that there 
can also be modest positive gains for Latinos’ achievement 
in  desegregated  schools. App.  17-18.  Because  widespread 
but unfounded beliefs about racial inferiority may signifi-
cantly  hinder  minority  students’  achievement,  the  reduc-
tion  of  negative  stereotypes  that  can  occur  in  racially 
integrated  schools  may  have  a  positive  psychological 
impact that improves black and Latino students’ academic 
performance.  App.  at  18-19.  Additionally,  studies  have 
confirmed  earlier  findings  that  school  desegregation  has 
had  little  or  no  measurable  negative  impact  on  the  test 
scores of white students. App. at 19-20. 

 

C.  Racial  Integration  Improves  Life  Opportu-

nities. 

  Research  shows  that  racially 

integrated  schools 
 
improve  students’ 
life  opportunities,  particularly  for 
nonwhite  students.  Attendance  at  desegregated  schools, 
for  example,  is  associated  with  higher  graduation  rates 
from high school by minority students. App. at 20. Minori-
ties  who  graduate  from  integrated  schools  are  also  more 
likely  to  have  access  to  the  social  and  professional  net-
works  that  have  historically  been  available  to  white 
students  and  can  provide  additional  information  about 
college-going opportunities and access to professional jobs. 
App.  at  21.5  Thus,  minorities  who  graduate  from  inte-
grated schools also tend to earn higher degrees and major in 

 
5  See, e.g., Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629, 634 (1950) (recognizing 

 
the importance of networks for occupational success). 

 

9 

varied  disciplines,  such  as  architecture  and  the  sciences. 
App.  at  21-22.  Labor  market  studies  have  also  found  that 
African Americans who attended desegregated schools have 
higher incomes than their peers in segregated schools. App. 
at 22-23. 

 
  Studies  also  reveal  that  students  of  all  racial  and 
ethnic  groups  who  attend  more  diverse  schools  report  an 
increased  sense  of  civic  engagement  than  do  their  more 
segregated peers. App. at 23-24. 

 

D.  Racially Integrated Schools Better Prepare 
Students  for  a  Diverse  Workforce,  Reduce 
Residential  Segregation,  and  Increase  Pa-
rental Involvement in Schools. 

 
  In  addition  to  offering  benefits  that  accrue  to  stu-
dents, racially integrated schools have been shown to have 
positive effects for communities. Studies have shown that 
positive  experiences  in  racially  integrated  classrooms  can 
make it more likely that individuals will bring fewer racial 
stereotypes into the workplace and will work more produc-
tively with individuals of other races. App. at 24. The U.S. 
military  has  found  that  policies  that  encourage  the  par-
ticipation  and  leadership  of African Americans  are  essen-
tial  for  the  effective  functioning  of  the  military  in  a 
multiracial society. App. at 24-25. 

 
  Recent  studies  have  also  shown  that  school  integra-
tion can help reduce residential segregation. In particular, 
research  demonstrates  that  when  fully 
implemented, 
especially  across  large  geographic  areas  such  as  counties, 
school desegregation can lead to more integrated residential 
patterns. White households are less likely to leave racially 
mixed  areas  if  they  are  confident  that  their  children  will 
continue to attend integrated schools. App. at 25-27. 

10 

  Research  further  shows  that  desegregated  school 
 
systems  tend  to  have  higher  levels  of  parental  involve-
ment, which may be due to the fact that there are greater 
incentives  for  all  residents,  regardless  of  race  or  class,  to 
commit their resources to the success of the school system 
as  a  whole  in  districts  where  schools  are  racially  inte-
grated. App. at 27-28. 

 
III.  RACIALLY  ISOLATED  MINORITY  SCHOOLS 
HAVE  HARMFUL  EDUCATIONAL  IMPLICA-
TIONS FOR STUDENTS. 

 
  In Brown, the Court recognized the significant psycho-
logical and educational harms caused by racial segregation 
in public schools. 347 U.S. at 494. Research findings since 
Brown  have  substantiated  this  conclusion  and  demon-
strated  that  segregated  minority  schools  offer  profoundly 
unequal educational opportunities for students, which lead 
to lower educational outcomes. 

 

A.  Racial  Isolation  is  Associated  with  Higher 
Teacher Turnover and Lower Teacher Quality. 
  The  central  role  that  teachers  play  in  influencing 
 
student 
learning  means  that  numerous  educational 
outcomes,  including  student  achievement,  are  adversely 
affected  by  problems  of  teacher  retention.  Research  dem-
onstrates  that  teachers  are  more  likely  to  leave  predomi-
nantly minority schools than integrated or predominantly 
white  schools,  resulting  in  teacher  turnover  in  minority 
schools.  Race  has  been  shown  to  be  the  driving  factor  in 
predicting  teacher  mobility,  more  so  than  working  condi-
tions and student poverty, and these patterns persist even 
when accounting for teacher salary. App. at 31. Due in part 

11 

to  higher  teacher  turnover,  African  American  and  Latino 
students in predominantly minority schools typically have a 
greater  proportion  of  teachers  who  are  inexperienced  and 
have lesser qualifications.6 App. at 32-33. 

 

B.  Racially  Isolated  Schools  Have  Concen-

trated Educational Disadvantages. 

 
  Research consistently shows that schools with higher 
percentages  of  minority  students  have  fewer  educational 
resources, such as larger class sizes, inadequate facilities, 
and  lower  per-pupil  spending.  Research  also  shows  that 
curricular  resources,  including  honors  and  Advanced 
Placement  courses,  are  not  equally  available  at  schools 
serving large percentages of minority students. Segregated 
minority  schools  are  often  located  in  neighborhoods  with 
high  poverty  and  crime  rates,  which  also  negatively  influ-
ence a broad range of educational factors. App. at 33-34. 

 

C.  Racial Isolation Limits Exposure to Peers Who 

Can Positively Influence Academic Learning. 

 
  Research  shows  that  students  from  families  with 
higher  socioeconomic  status  typically  bring  educational 
advantages  that  improve  the  achievement  of  all  students 
in  the  classroom. App.  at  35-36.  Because  poor  black  and 
Latino  students  are  statistically  more  likely  to  attend  a 
 
 
6  The  No  Child  Left  Behind  Act  (NCLB)  of  2001  recognizes  the 
importance  of  teacher  quality  for  improving  student  achievement.  See 
20  U.S.C.  § 6319(a)  (requiring  “highly  qualified”  teachers  in  every 
classroom). Additionally,  NCLB  requires  that  states  develop  a  plan  to 
ensure “that low-income students and minority students are not taught 
at higher rates than other students by inexperienced, unqualified, out-
of-field, or inexperienced teachers.” 20 U.S.C. § 6312(c)(1)(L). 

 

12 

school of concentrated poverty than poor white students – 
a fact that is driven by race, beyond the influence of class 
(App. at 29-30) – racially segregated minority schools are 
less  likely  to  have  students  from  higher  socioeconomic 
backgrounds  than  schools  with  higher  percentages  of 
white students. App. at 35-37. 

 

D.  Racial  Isolation  is  Associated  with  Lower 

Educational Outcomes. 

 
  As  a  result  of  teacher  and  resource  disparities,  stu-
dents in segregated minority schools have lower academic 
outcomes.  App.  at  37-38.  Research  shows  that  minority 
isolation is a significant predictor of low graduation rates, 
even  when  holding  constant  the  effects  of  other  school 
performance  indicators.  App.  at  38-39.  Further,  studies 
show  that  students in  predominantly minority schools are 
less likely to graduate from college, even when factoring in 
students’ prior test scores and socioeconomic status. App. at 
39-40. Because of the growing number of minority students 
in public schools, if existing educational trends continue, the 
nation risks something it has never before seen: an intergen-
erational  decline  in  its  educational  level,  a  threatening 
outcome in a knowledge-based, global economy. App. at 40. 

 
IV.  RACE-CONSCIOUS  STUDENT  ASSIGNMENT 
POLICIES  ARE  NECESSARY  TO  MAINTAIN 
RACIALLY DESEGREGATED SCHOOLS. 

 
  Research  further  supports  the  conclusion  that  race-
conscious policies are necessary to maintain racial integra-
tion.  In  particular,  studies  have  shown  that  race-neutral 
policies  are  not  as  effective  as  race-conscious  policies  in 
achieving racial diversity. Moreover, resegregation typically 

13 

results when school districts do not maintain race-conscious 
policies in previously desegregated school systems. 
 

A.  Race-Neutral  Choice  Policies  Have  Led  to 
Racial Isolation and Greater Segregation in 
Schools. 

 
  Research  has  demonstrated  that,  without  plans  or 
specific  guidelines  designed  to  achieve  racial  integration, 
“uncontrolled”  school  choice  or  geography-based  student 
assignment  plans  tend  to  accompany  racially  homogene-
ous schools and lead to greater segregation. App. at 41-43. 
Evidence  shows  that  managed  choice  assignment  policies 
that  consider  race  as  a  factor,  however,  tend  to  result  in 
racial  diversity  and  maintain  integration  over  time. App. 
at 43-44. Studies also suggest that denying some students 
the opportunity to attend their first-choice school through 
a  lottery  assignment  system  may  not  negatively  affect 
their academic achievement. App. at 44. 
 

B.  Race-Neutral  Policies  that  Rely  on  Socio-
economic  Status  are  Less  Effective  than 
Race-Conscious Policies in Attaining Racial 
Diversity. 

 
  Plans  that  integrate  schools  by  family  socioeconomic 
status  are  also  an  inadequate  means  to  achieve  racial 
desegregation.  Statistical  analyses  evaluating  whether 
income-based  integration  plans  in  the  nation’s  largest 
school  districts  would  create  racially  integrated  schools 
found  that  income-based  plans  based  on  student  school-
lunch eligibility  would  have  little  or  no effect  in  produc-
ing  racial  integration.  App.  at  48-49.  One  of  the  main 
difficulties  is  that  the  only  measure  of  socioeconomic 
status  that  schools  have  is  students’  free-lunch  status 
which is a dichotomous measure that fails to adequately 

14 

capture the wide variation in family economic status. App. 
at  46.  Even  if    a  more  adequate  measure  could  be  devel-
oped,  which  would  require  highly  intrusive  questions 
about a family’s economic situation, the fact remains that 
while race and class are often strongly correlated, they are 
not  perfectly  correlated,  and  in  some  cases  are  not  corre-
lated at all. App. at 47-48. Indeed, studies evaluating the 
actual  implementation  of  socioeconomic  integration  plans 
have found that they have had mixed results in maintain-
ing racially diverse schools. App. at 48-50, 53-54. 

 

C.  School  Districts  that  No  Longer  Consider 
Race in Their Student Assignment Policies 
Have  Experienced  Resegregation  and  Its 
Harmful Consequences. 

it 

from 

 
  Research on school districts that were formerly under 
desegregation  orders  reveals  that  eliminating  race  from 
consideration in student assignments has been associated 
with  resegregation  and  an  array  of  harmful  effects  on 
students.  Research 
the  Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
system,  for  example,  shows  that  after  the  district  was 
declared  unitary  and 
implemented  race-neutral, 
neighborhood-based  student  assignment  in  August  2002, 
there  was  a  substantial  increase  in  school  segregation 
within  the  district,  accompanied  by  declines  in  academic 
achievement.  App.  at  51-52.  Similar  results  have  been 
found in Denver and San Francisco, which have also ended 
the  use  of  race-conscious  policies.  App.  at  52-54.  These 
results are not surprising given that research had already 
documented  similar  patterns  of  resegregation  and 
achievement  declines  in  Norfolk,  Virginia  and  Oklahoma 
City. App. at 50-51. 

--------------------------------- ♦ --------------------------------- 

15 

CONCLUSION 

 
  For the foregoing reasons, the judgments of the Courts 
of Appeals  upholding  the  constitutionality  of  the  student 
admissions policies designed by local education authorities 
in the Jefferson County and Seattle school districts should 
be affirmed. 

Respectfully submitted, 
LILIANA M. GARCES 
  Counsel of Record 
124 Mt. Auburn Street 
Suite 500 North 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
(617) 496-1560 

October 2006 

App. 1 

APPENDIX 

STATEMENT OF AMERICAN SOCIAL SCIENTISTS 

OF RESEARCH ON SCHOOL DESEGREGATION 
  In  the  52  years  since  Brown  v.  Board  of  Education 
 
was  decided,  social  science  research  has  expanded  our 
knowledge about the positive effects of racially integrated 
schools. Studies document how racially integrated schools 
provide  students  with  opportunities  to  learn  and  develop 
in  multiracial  settings  while  preparing  them  to  live  and 
work  in  multiracial  communities  and  institutions  as 
adults. This preparation remains an important component 
of  education  in  our  increasingly  diverse  society.  As  the 
Court  acknowledged  in  Brown,  schools  are  the  “very 
foundation  of  good  citizenship”  and  “a  principal  instru-
ment in awakening the child to cultural values, in prepar-
ing him for later professional training, and in helping him 
to  adjust  normally  to  his  environment.”1  Decades  of  re-
search  have  also  substantiated  Brown’s  conclusion  that 
racially segregated schools are likely to deprive students of 
an  equal  opportunity  to  learn.2  In  a  nation  where  the 
minority population has tripled since the Brown decision, 
the  consequences  of  segregation  are  all  the  more  serious, 
and  empirical  evidence  shows  that,  for  many  American 
communities,  sustaining  integrated  schools  is  difficult 

 
 

 
1  Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483, 493 (1954). 
 
2  Walter  Stephan,  “School  Desegregation:  An  Evaluation  of  the 
Predictions  Made  in  Brown  vs.  Board  of  Education,”  Psychological 
Bulletin  85  (1978):  217-38;  Walter  Stephan,  “The  Effects  of  School 
Desegregation:  An  Evaluation  30  Years  After  Brown,”  in  Advances  in 
Applied Social Psychology, ed. Michael J. Saks and Leonard Saxe (New 
York: Erlbaum, 1986): 181-206. 

 

App. 2 

without  specific  policies  designed  to  achieve  or  maintain 
them.3 

 
  This  statement  summarizes  a  large  body  of  research 
and  draws  justifiable  conclusions  from  the  available 
scientific  evidence.  It  reflects  the  consensus  of  the  hun-
dreds  of  undersigned  researchers,  who  are  authorities  in 
fields relevant to the issues discussed here. We submit this 
statement to aid the Court’s understanding of the student 
assignment  policies  that  the  local  school  districts  in  the 
cases before the Court have voluntarily adopted to further 
educational  goals.  We  present  research  regarding  the 
benefits  of  racially  integrated  schools  for  students  and 
communities  (Part  I),  the  harms  that  have  been  found  to 
be  associated  with  racially  segregated  minority  schools 
(Part  II),  and  the  effectiveness  of  race-conscious  policies 
to  help  maintain  racially  integrated  schools  (Part  III). 
Racially  desegregated  schools  are  not  an  educational  or 
social  panacea  and  the  extent  of  benefits  will  depend  on 
how  desegregation  is  structured  and  implemented.  What 
research studies show, however, is that racially integrated 
schools  tend  to  provide  benefits  that  are  not  available  in 
segregated schools.  

 
I. 

The Benefits of Racially Integrated Schools for 
Students and Communities. 

 
  Racially  integrated  public  schools  provide  significant 
benefits  for  students  of  all  races  and  their  communities. 
 
 
3  Desegregation  generally  describes  the  creation  of  schools 
containing substantial percentages of students from two or more racial 
and ethnic groups. Integration refers to the positive implementation of 
desegregation  with  equal  status  for  all  groups  and  respect  for  all 
cultures.  

 

App. 3 

Studies  document  how  these  schools  provide  an  environ-
ment  that  promotes  social  tolerance  and  reduces  racial 
prejudice,  improves  students’  critical  thinking  skills  and 
academic achievement, and enhances economic and occupa-
tional opportunities. Communities also benefit from a more 
productive  workforce,  decreased  residential  segregation, 
and  increased  parental  involvement  in  schools.  These 
positive  outcomes  improve  the  future  viability  of  work-
places and communities.  

 
Cross-Racial Understanding and Reduction of Racial Prejudice 
 
  A  considerable  number  of  studies  since  Brown  have 
shown  how  the  social  environment  of  schools  affects  the 
attitudes  of  students  from  one  racial  group  toward  stu-
dents  of  other  racial  groups.4  Over  the  past  15  years, 
research in developmental psychology has documented the 

 

 
 
4  See Thomas Pettigrew, “Attitudes on Race and Housing: A Social-
Psychological  View,”  in  Segregation  in  Residential  Areas,  ed. Amos  H. 
Hawley  and  Vincent  P.  Rock  (Washington,  D.C.:  National Academy  of 
Sciences,  1973):  21-84;  Thomas  Pettigrew,  “Justice  Deferred:  A  Half 
Century after Brown v. Board of Education,” American Psychologist 59, 
no. 66 (2004): 521-29; Nancy St. John, School Desegregation: Outcomes 
for Children (New York: Wiley, 1975); Elizabeth G. Cohen, “Design and 
Redesign  of  the  Desegregated  School:  Problems  of  Status,  Power,  and 
Conflict,” in School Desegregation: Past, Present and Future, ed. Walter 
G.  Stephan  and  Joe  R.  Feagin  (New  York:  Plenum,  1980):  251-78; 
Sandra B. Damico, Afesa Bell-Nathaniel, and Charles Green, “Effects of 
School  Organizational  Structure  on  Interracial  Friendships  in  Middle 
Schools,”  Journal  of  Education  Research  74,  no.  6  (1981):  388-93; 
Vladimir  T.  Khmelkov  and  Maureen  T.  Hallinan,  “Organizational 
Effects on Race Relations in Schools,” Journal of Social Issues 55, no. 4 
(1999):  627-45;  Melanie  Killen,  Nancy  G.  Margie,  and  Stefanie  Sinno, 
“Morality in the Context of Intergroup Relationships,” in Handbook of 
Moral Development, ed. Melanie Killen and Judith Smetana (Mahwah, 
N. J.: LEA, 2006): 155-83. 

App. 4 

social  and  developmental  benefits  of  intergroup  contact 
that results from school integration and examined stereo-
typing, prejudice, and exclusion attitudes in childhood.5 

  These  comprehensive  educational  studies  conclude 
 
that  a  racially  integrated  student  body  is  necessary  to 
obtain  cross-racial  understanding,  which  may  lead  to  a 
reduction of harmful stereotypes and bias. Racially segre-
gated  schools  deprive  students  of  these  learning  opportu-
nities  and  the  available  evidence  indicates  that  indirect 
programs  that  merely  emphasize  the  transmission  of 
information about other groups but are not able to utilize 
intergroup contact have little impact on actually changing 
the  behavior  of  students.6  Like  learning  new  communica-
tion skills, the skills needed to relate to students of other 
racial  and  ethnic  groups  require  practice.7  Knowledge 

 

 

 
 
5  Melanie Killen and Clark McKown, “How Integrative Approaches 
to  Intergroup Attitudes Advance  the  Field,”  Journal  of  Applied  Devel-
opmental Psychology 26 (2005): 612-22. 
 
6  Willis D. Hawley, “Designing Schools that Use Student Diversity 
to  Enhance  Learning  of  All  Students,”  in  Lessons  in  Integration: 
Realizing the Promise of Racial Diversity in America’s Schools, ed. Erica 
Frankenberg  and  Gary  Orfield  (Charlottesville,  Va.:  Univ.  of  Virginia 
Press,  in  press);  Frances  E. Aboud  and  Maria Amato,  “Developmental 
and  Socialization  Influences  on  Intergroup  Bias,”  in  Blackwell  Hand-
book of Social Psychology: Intergroup Relations, ed. Rupert Brown and 
Samuel L. Gaertner (Oxford, England: Blackwell Publishers, 2001): 65-
85;  Janet  Ward  Schofield  and  H.  Andrew  Sagar,  “Peer  Interaction 
Patterns in an Integrated Middle School,” Sociometry 40, no. 2 (1977): 
130-38. 
7  Janet Ward Schofield, Black and White in School: Trust, Tension 
 
or  Tolerance?  (New York:  Teachers  College  Press,  1989)  (showing  that 
behavior  changed  over  time  as  kids  became  more  comfortable  with 
members of other racial groups and were less likely to avoid them). 

 

App. 5 

about  and  empathy  for  other  groups  are  not  as  easily 
learned or long-lasting if learned in homogeneous schools.8 

 
  In  a  nation  in  which  the  proportion  of  whites  among 
the  school-aged  population  has  declined  to  less  than  60% 
and  is  declining  by  the  year,  there  is  growing  value  to 
cross-racial  understanding  and  cooperation  among  indi-
viduals of all races. For white students, who, on average, 
grow  up  in  the  most  racially  separate  neighborhoods  and 
remain  highly  segregated  in  K-12  and  higher  education 
classrooms,9  racially  integrated  schools  provide  benefits 
that  many  students  may  not  be  able  to  obtain  in  other 
ways.10  Recent  findings  from  a  survey  of  high  school 
juniors  and  seniors  in  seven  major  school  districts  across 
the  nation,  including  Seattle  and  Jefferson  County,  show 
that  white  students  value  interracial  experiences  and 
report  that  their  racially  integrated  schools  better  pre-
pared  them  to  work  and  participate  in  public  life  in 

 

 

 
 
8  Peter  B.  Wood  and  Nancy  Sonleitner,  “The  Effect  of  Childhood 
Interracial Contact on Adult Antiblack Prejudice,” Journal of Intercul-
tural Relations 20, no. 1 (1996): 1-17. 
 
9  Sean  F.  Reardon  and  John  T.  Yun,  “Integrating  Neighborhoods, 
Segregating  Schools:  The  Retreat  from  School  Desegregation  in  the 
South,  1990-2000,”  in  School  Resegregation:  Must  the  South  Turn 
Back?, ed. John C. Boger and Gary Orfield (Chapel Hill, N.C.: Univ. of 
North Carolina Press, 2005): 51-69. 
 
10  Michal Kurlaender and John T. Yun, “Is Diversity a Compelling 
Educational  Interest?  Evidence  from  Louisville,”  in  Diversity  Chal-
lenged: Evidence on the Impact of Affirmative Action, ed. Gary Orfield 
with  Michal  Kurlaender  (Cambridge,  Mass.:  Harvard  Education 
Publishing Group, 2001): 111-41; Pamela Perry, Shades of White: White 
Kids and Racial Identities in High School (Durham, N.C.: Duke Univ. 
Press, 2002). 

 

App. 6 

in  their  multiracial  communities.11  Additionally,  students 
of  all  racial  groups  in  integrated  schools  felt  higher  com-
fort  levels  with  members  of  racial  groups  different  than 
their  own  when  compared  with  students  in  segregated 
schools.12  For  example,  white  students  in  integrated 
settings  have  been  found  to  exhibit  more  racial  tolerance 
and  less  fear  of  their  black  peers  over  time  than  their 
segregated peers.13 

 
  Teachers  believe  that  building  respect  for  people  of 
other races and cultures is one of the most important goals 
of education.14 Many teachers with everyday experience in 
racially  diverse  schools  believe  in  the  benefits  of  racial 
diversity  for  student  learning  and  as  an  experience  that 
fosters  productive,  economic,  and  civic  participation  in 

 

 

 

 
 
11  John T. Yun and Michal Kurlaender, “School Racial Composition 
and  Student  Educational  Aspirations:  A  Question  of  Equity  in  a 
Multiracial Society,” Journal of Education for Students Placed at Risk 
9, no. 2 (2004): 143-68. 
12  Michal  Kurlaender  and  John  T. Yun,  “Measuring  School  Racial 
 
Composition and Student Outcomes in a Multiracial Society,” American 
Journal of Education (forthcoming). 
 
13  Janet Ward Schofield, “Review of Research on School Desegrega-
tion’s  Impact  on  Elementary  and  Secondary  School  Students,”  in 
Handbook of Research on Multicultural Education, ed. James A. Banks 
and  Cherry  M.  Banks  (New  York:  Macmillan  Publishing,  1995):  597-
616;  Amy  J.  Strefling,  “The  Influence  of  Integrated  and  De  Facto 
Segregated  Schools  on  Racial  Attitudes  of  White  Students  toward 
African  Americans”  (paper  presented  at  Council  for  Administration 
Convention,  St.  Louis,  1998);  Jomills  Henry  Braddock,  Marvin  P. 
Dawkins, and William T. Trent, “Why Desegregate? The Effect of School 
Desegregation on Adult Occupational Segregation of African Americans, 
Whites,  and  Hispanics,”  International  Journal  of  Contemporary 
Sociology 31, no. 2 (1994): 271-83. 
14  Alec  Gallup,  The  Phi  Delta  Kappa  Gallup  Poll  of  Teachers’ 
 
Attitudes  Towards  the  Public  Schools  (Bloomington,  Ind.:  Phi  Delta 
Kappa, 1985). 

 

App. 7 

U.S.  society.  They  also  state  that  these  benefits  are  diffi-
cult  to  attain  in  single-race  classrooms.15  Virtually  all 
teachers  (and  about  90%  of  students)  in  a  recent  survey 
stated that it was important for students of different races 
and  ethnicities  to  interact,  although  far  fewer  believed 
that this was currently happening in their schools.16 

 
  The harms to students who are the targets of negative 
stereotypes  and  to  students  who  become  the  unwitting 
inheritors of such views are well known.17 Children become 
aware  of  racial  and  ethnic  group  differences  from  very 
young  ages,18  and  their  developing  views  of  different 
groups  are  affected  and  shaped  by  others  within  their 
social  worlds.19  Because  stereotypes  can  become  deeply 

 

 

 

 
 
15  Ellen  Goldring  and  Claire  Smrekar,  “Magnet  Schools  and  the 
Pursuit  of  Racial  Balance,”  Education  and  Urban  Society  33,  no.  1 
(November  2000):  17-35;  Teacher  Opinions  on  Racial  and  Ethnic 
Diversity:  Clark  County  School  District,  Nevada  (Cambridge,  Mass.: 
The Civil Rights Project, 2002). 
16  Kelly Bagnashi and Marc R. Scheer, “Brown v. Board of Educa-
 
tion:  Fifty  Years  Later,”  in  Trends  and  Tudes  Newsletter  of  Harris 
Interactive  Youth  Research  3,  no.  6  (June  2004)  (summarizing  the 
findings of a Harris Interactive/Education Week poll).  
 
17  Claude  M.  Steele,  Steven  J.  Spencer,  and  Joshua  Aronson, 
“Contending  with  Group  Image:  The  Psychology  of  Stereotype  and 
Social Identity Threat,” in Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, 
ed. Mark Zanna (New York: Academic Press, 2002): 379-440.  
 
18  Frances  E.  Aboud,  Children  and  Prejudice  (London:  Blackwell 
Publishers,  1988);  Lawrence  A.  Hirschfeld,  “The  Inheritability  of 
Identity:  Children’s  Understanding  of  the  Cultural  Biology  of  Race,” 
Child Development 66, no. 5 (1995): 1418-37. 
19  See Frances E. Aboud, Morton J. Mendelson, and Kelly T. Purdy, 
 
“Cross-Race  Peer  Relations  and  Friendship  Quality,”  International 
Journal  of  Behavioral  Development  27,  no.  2  (2003):  165-73;  Killen, 
Margie,  and  Sinno,  “Morality  in  the  Context  of  Intergroup  Relation-
ships,”  155-83;  Christopher  G.  Ellison  and  Daniel  A.  Powers,  “The 
Contact  Hypothesis  and  Racial  Attitudes  among  Black  Americans,” 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 8 

entrenched as children become adults, early social interac-
tions  are  important  to  promote  tolerance  and  reduce  pre-
judice.20  In  addition,  the  effectiveness  of  constructive, 
integrated  school  settings  in  reducing  the  transmission  of 
such  stereotypes  has  been  well  established.21  It  has  been 
 

 

 
Social  Science  Quarterly  75,  no.  2  (1994):  385-400.  See  also  Rebecca 
Bigler  and  Lynn  S.  Liben,  “A  Developmental  Intergroup  Theory  of 
Social  Stereotypes  and  Prejudice,”  in  Advances  in  Child  Development 
and Behavior, vol. 34, ed. Robert V. Kail (San Diego: Elsevier, 2006): 39-
89 (positing that segregation is a causal factor in stereotyping because 
merely seeing people sorted by some human attribute leads children to 
believe that the groups differ). 
20  Research  focusing  on  children’s  implicit  attitudes  –  attitudes 
 
that reflect a racial bias, unbeknownst to the individual expressing the 
attitudes – has shown that white children attending racially homogene-
ous  elementary  schools  were  more  likely  to  attribute  negative  inten-
tions to peers based on race when evaluating ambiguous situations in 
school contexts than were white children attending racially heterogene-
ous  schools.  See  Heidi  Mcglothlin,  Melanie  Killen,  and  Christina 
Edmonds,  “European-American  Children’s  Intergroup Attitudes About 
Peer  Relationships,”  British  Journal  of  Developmental  Psychology  23, 
no. 2 (2005): 227-49. 
21  See  Frances  E. Aboud  and  Sheri  Levy,  “Intervention  to  Reduce 
 
Prejudice  and  Discrimination  in  Children  and Adolescents,”  in Reduc-
ing Prejudice and Discrimination, ed. Stuart Oskamp (Hillsdale, N. J.: 
Lawrence Erlbaum, 2000): 269-93; Killen, Margie, and Sinno, “Morality 
in  the  Context  of  Intergroup  Relationships,”  155-83;  Martin  Patchen, 
Black-White Contact in Schools: Its Social and Academic Effects (West 
Lafayette, Ind.: Purdue Univ. Press, 1982); Janet Ward Schofield, “The 
Impact of Positively Structured Contact  on Intergroup Behavior: Does 
It Last under Adverse Conditions?” Social Psychology Quarterly 42, no. 
3  (Sept.  1979):  280-84;  Walter  G.  Stephan  and  Cookie  W.  Stephan, 
Improving  Intergroup  Relations  (Thousand  Oaks,  Calif.:  Sage,  2001); 
Hawley,  “Designing  Schools;”  Linda  Tropp  and  Mary  Prenovost,  “The 
Role  of  Intergroup  Contact  in  Predicting  Children’s  Inter-Ethnic 
Attitudes:  Evidence  from  Meta-Analytic  and  Field  Studies,”  in  Inter-
group Relations: An Integrative Developmental and Social Psychological 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 9 

found that the reduction of stereotyping and the increased 
understanding  that  racial  exclusion  is  harmful  are  prod-
ucts  of  children’s  social  cognition,  perspective  taking, 
empathetic  responses,  and  moral  judgments,22  all  of  which 
are enhanced in integrated environments.23 These outcomes 
are  especially  important  in  the  education  context,  where 
stereotypes may inhibit academic interaction and learning 
by all students. 

 
  A  recent  meta-analysis24  of  over  500  prior  studies 
that collectively involved 250,000 participants shows that 
greater  levels  of  contact  among  different  groups  are 
typically  associated  with  lower  levels  of  intergroup 
prejudice,  and  that  these  effects  are  consistent  and 
significant  for  samples  of  children,  adolescents,  and 
adults.25 Although optimal intergroup conditions – such as 

 

 

 
Perspective,  ed.  Sheri  Levy  and  Melanie  Killen  (Oxford,  England: 
Oxford Univ. Press, in press). 
 
22  Killen, Margie, and Sinno, “Morality in the Context of Intergroup 
Relationships,”  155-83.  Research  suggests  the  critical  importance  of 
being  aligned  in  collective  teamwork  to  consistently  attain  positive 
benefits of intergroup contact. Schofield, “Review of Research,” 597-616.  
 
23  Recent  research  with  adolescents  in  the  Los  Angeles  area  has 
shown  that  students  who  are  enrolled  in  schools  with  high  ethnic 
diversity are more likely to feel safe and experience less harassment in 
school than are students enrolled in schools with high racial isolation. 
Jaana  Juvonen,  Adrienne  Nishina,  and  Sandra  Graham,  “Ethnic 
Diversity  and  Perceptions  of  Safety  in  Urban  Middle  Schools,” 
Psychological Science 17, no. 5 (May 2006): 393-400. 
24  When  performing  a  meta-analysis,  researchers  attempt  to  find 
 
every study conducted on a particular topic; then, they statistically pool 
the  results  to  examine  the  overall  patterns  of  effects  and  to  uncover 
additional variables that moderate those effects. 
25  Thomas  Pettigrew  and  Linda  Tropp,  “A  Meta-Analytic  Test  of 
 
Intergroup Contact Theory,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychol-
ogy 90 (2006): 751-83. 

 

 

App. 10 

equal  status  between  groups,  support  of  institutional 
authorities,  common  goals  and  cooperation  –  are  not 
necessary  for  prejudice  reduction,  larger  reductions  in 
prejudice  occur  when  the  conditions  are  established.26  A 
related  analysis  of  198  independent  samples  from  these 
studies  showed  that  significant,  positive  effects  of  inter-
group contact typically emerge for samples of children and 
adolescents  in  schools,  and  specifically  when  the  contact 
involves  youth  from  different  racial  and  ethnic  groups.27 
Additional  studies  show  how  cross-race  friendships  that 
develop  through  contact  in  schools  encourage  broader, 
positive  changes  in  interracial  attitudes.28  These  positive 
effects accrue regardless of whether participants voluntar-
ily  chose  to  engage  in  intergroup  contact.29  Collectively 
these  findings  suggest  that  contact  among  youth  from 
different  racial  groups  promotes  positive 
intergroup 
attitudes,  and  such  positive  outcomes  become  stronger 

 

 

 

27  Tropp and Prenovost, “The Role of Intergroup Contact in Predict-

 
 
26  Gordon  Allport,  The  Nature  of  Prejudice,  (Cambridge,  Mass.: 
Addison-Wesley  Publishing  Company,  1954)  (discussing  optimal  condi-
tions for intergroup contact). 
 
ing Children’s Inter-Ethnic Attitudes.” 
28  Damico,  Bell-Nathaniel,  and  Green,  “Interracial  Friendships  in 
 
Middle  Schools,”  388-93;  Shana  Levin,  Colette  van  Laar  and  Jim 
Sidanius, “The Effects of Ingroup and Outgroup Friendships on Ethnic 
Attitudes  in  College:  A  Longitudinal  Study,”  Group  Processes  and 
Intergroup Relations 6, no. 1 (2003): 76-92. 
29  This is noteworthy because critics of contact theory suggest that 
 
those  seeking  out  intergroup  contact  might  already  have  lower  preju-
dice, but an analysis that coded whether participants had “full choice” 
to engage in contact or “no choice” found that the effects of contact were 
comparably strong for both groups. See Pettigrew and Tropp, “A Meta-
Analytic Test of Intergroup Contact Theory,” 757-58. 

 

App. 11 

when optimal intergroup conditions are established in the 
school environment. 

 
  Racially  diverse  schools  can  be  structured  in  ways 
that make positive outcomes more likely to occur.30 Track-
ing white and Asian students into more advanced classes 
and black and Latino students into lower-level classes – as 
studies  have  suggested  disproportionately  occurs,  regard-
less  of  ability31  –  will  limit  the  intergroup  contact  that 
produces gains for all in addition to restricting the future 
success of minority students.32 Educators can benefit from 
the  considerable  research  demonstrating  how  to  imple-
ment desegregation successfully.33  

 

 

 
30  Cookie W. Stephan and Walter G. Stephan, “Cognition and Affect 
 
in  Cross-Cultural  Relations,”  in  Handbook  of  International  and 
Intercultural  Communication,  2nd  ed.,  ed.  William  B.  Gudykunst  and 
Bella Mody (Thousand Oaks, Calif. Sage, 2002): 127-42; Pettigrew and 
Tropp,  “A  Meta-Analytic  Test  of  Intergroup  Contact  Theory,"  751-83; 
Schofield  and  Sagar,  “Peer  Interaction  Patterns,”  130-38;  Robert  E. 
Slavin,  “Effects  of  Biracial  Learning  Teams  on  Cross-Racial  Friend-
ships,”  Journal  of  Educational  Psychology  71,  no.  3  (1979):  381-87; 
Robert E. Slavin, Cooperative Learning: Theory, Research, and Practice, 
2nd ed. (Boston: Allyn & Bacon, 1995). 
31  Roslyn  A.  Mickelson,  “Subverting  Swann:  First-  and  Second- 
 
Generation  Segregation  in  Charlotte,  North  Carolina,”  American 
Educational Research Journal 38, no. 2 (2001): 215-52. 
32  See Carol Corbett Burris, Jay Heubert, and Henry Levin, “Math 
 
Acceleration for All,” Educational Leadership 61, no. 5 (2004): 68-71; Jo 
Boaler  and  Megan  Staples,  “Transforming  Students’  Lives  through  an 
Equitable Mathematics Approach: The Case of Railside School” (paper 
presented  at  meeting  of  the  American  Educational  Research  Associa-
tion, Montreal, Canada, April 2005). 
33  See  Willis  D.  Hawley  et  al.,  Strategies  for  Effective  School 
 
Desegregation (Lexington, Ma.: Lexington Books, 1983); Erica Franken-
berg  and  Gary  Orfield,  ed.,  Lessons  in  Integration:  Realizing  the 
Promise  of  Racial  Diversity  in  America’s  Schools  (Charlottesville,  Va: 
Univ. of Virginia Press, in press). 

 

 

App. 12 

Critical Thinking Skills 
 
  Educational psychology theories indicate that learning 
in  diverse  classrooms,  where  students  from  different 
backgrounds communicate their different experiences and 
perspectives,  encourages  students  to  think  in  more  com-
plex ways.34 Because students of different races and ethnic 
backgrounds often bring different cultural knowledge and 
social  perspectives  into  schools,  classrooms  with  racially 
diverse  groups  of  students  are  more  likely  to  enhance 
critical thinking by exposing students to new information 
and  understandings.35  Much  has  already  been  learned 
from research in higher education about the benefits of a 
diverse  learning  community.36  For  example,  there  is  evi-
dence  from  a  multi-institution  study  that  students  experi-
encing  classroom  diversity  –  specifically  racial  and  ethnic 
diversity  –  “showed  the  greatest  engagement  in  active 
thinking processes, growth in intellectual engagement and 

 

 
 
34  John D. Bransford and Dan L. Schwartz, “Rethinking Transfer: A 
Simple Proposal with Multiple Implications,” in Review of Research in 
Education,  ed. Asghar  Iran-Nejad  and  P.  David  Pearson  (Washington, 
D.C.: American Educational Research Association, 1999): 61-101; Allan 
Wigfield  et  al.,  “Development  of  Achievement  Motivation,”  in  Social, 
Emotional,  and  Personality,  vol.  3,  6th  ed.  of  Handbook  of  Child 
Psychology,  ed.  William  Damon,  Richard  M.  Lerner,  and  Nancy 
Eisenberg (New York: Wiley, in press). 
 
edge (Chicago: Univ. of Chicago Press, 1971). 
 
36  See,  e.g.,  Mitchell  J.  Chang  et  al.,  ed.,  Compelling  Interest: 
Examining the Evidence on Racial Dynamics in Colleges and Universi-
ties (Stanford, Calif.: Stanford Univ. Press, 2003) as recognized by the 
Court in Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 306, 330 (2003). 

35  Hawley,  “Designing  Schools;”  Jean  Piaget,  Biology  and  Knowl-

 

 

App. 13 

motivation,  and  growth  in  intellectual  and  academic 
skills.”37 

 

 
Academic Achievement 
 
  A substantial body of research has been conducted on 
the impact of desegregated schooling on students’ academic 
achievement.38 Reviews of early desegregation research lead 
to  the  conclusion  that  school  desegregation  has  a  modest 
positive  impact39  on  the  achievement  of  African-American 
 
37  Patricia  Gurin,  “Expert  Report of  Patricia  Gurin,” submitted  in 
 
Gratz,  et  al.  v.  Bollinger,  et  al.,  No.  97-75231  (E.D.  Mich.  1999)  and 
Grutter,  et  al.  v.  Bollinger,  et  al.,  No.  97-75928  (E.D.  Mich.  1999);  see 
also Patricia Marin, “The Educational Possibility of Multi-Racial/Multi-
Ethnic College Classrooms,” in Does Diversity Make a Difference? Three 
Research  Studies  on  Diversity  in  College  Classrooms,  ed.  American 
Council on Education & American Association of University Professors 
(Washington,  D.C.: ACE  & AAUP,  2000):  61-83;  Jeffrey  F.  Milem  and 
Kenji  Hakuta,  “The  benefits  of  racial  and  ethnic  diversity  in  higher 
education,”  featured  report,  in  Minorities  in  Higher  Education:  Seven-
teenth  Annual  Status  Report,  Deborah  J.  Wilds  (author)  (Washington, 
D.C.:  American  Council  on  Education,  2000):  39-67.  Although  these 
studies were more descriptive, experimental work in this area confirms 
that students exposed to racial diversity relative to those who are not, 
have  improved  outcomes.  See  Greg  J.  Duncan  et  al.,  “Empathy  or 
Antipathy? The Consequences of Racially and Socially Diverse Peers on 
Attitudes  and  Behaviors,”  Working  paper,  Joint  Center  for  Policy 
Research,  Northwestern  University,  2003;  Anthony  Lising  Antonio  et 
al.,  “Effects  of  Racial  Diversity  on  Complex  Thinking  in  College 
Students,” Psychological Science 15, no. 8 (August 2004): 507-10. 
38  Much  of  that  research  was  carried  out  during  the  1960s  and 
 
1970s, when research on desegregation primarily was focused on black 
students  attending  formerly  all-white  schools,  often  examining  data 
during one year, early in the implementation of desegregation plans. 
39  Most  school  reforms  have  little  or  no  effect  on  improving 
 
students’  outcomes  (see  Richard  Rothstein,  Class  and  Schools  (New 
York:  Teachers  College  Press,  2004);  Jaekyung  Lee, Tracking  Achieve-
ment Gaps and Assessing the Impact of NCLB on the Gaps: An In-depth 
Look  into  National  and  State  Reading  and  Math  Outcome  Trends 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 14 

students.40  Specifically,  desegregation  appears  to  have  a 
positive impact on reading achievement, but there appears 
to  be  little  or  no  effect  on  math  scores.41  The  impact  of 
desegregation  on  achievement  varies  by  context,  appear-
ing  somewhat  stronger  for  younger  students.42  It  also 
appears  that  there  are  stronger  achievement  gains  when 
desegregation is voluntary.43  

 

 

 
(Cambridge, Mass.: The Civil Rights Project, 2006)). Thus, the modest 
impact that desegregation has had on student achievement relative to 
these other reforms is substantial. 
 
40  Thomas  D. Cook, “What Have Black Children Gained Academi-
cally  From  School  Integration?:  Examination  of  the  Meta-Analytic 
Evidence,” School Desegregation and Black Achievement, ed. Thomas D. 
Cook  et  al.  (Washington,  D.C.:  Department  of  Education,  May  1984); 
Rita  E.  Mahard  and  Robert  L.  Crain,  “Research  on  Minority Achieve-
ment in Desegregated Schools,” in The Consequences of School Desegre-
gation,  ed.  Christine  Rossell  and  Willis D.  Hawley  (Philadelphia,  Pa.: 
Temple Univ. Press, 1983): 103-25; Schofield, “Review of Research,” 597-
616.  
41  David  J.  Armor,  “The  Evidence  on  Desegregation  and  Black 
 
Achievement,”  in  School  Desegregation  and  Black  Achievement,  ed. 
Thomas  Cook  et  al.  (Washington,  D.C.:  National  Institution  of  Educa-
tion,  1984):  43-67;  Norman  Miller  and  Michael  Carlson,  “School 
Desegregation  as  a  Social  Reform:  A  Meta-Analysis  of  Its  Effects  on 
Black  Academic  Achievement,”  in  School  Desegregation  and  Black 
Achievement,  ed.  Thomas  Cook  et  al.  (Washington,  D.C.:  National 
Institute  of  Education,  1984):  89-130;  Paul  M.  Wortman,  “School 
Desegregation and Black Achievement: An Integrative View.,” in School 
Desegregation  and  Black  Achievement,  ed.  Thomas  Cook  et  al.  (Wash-
ington, D.C.: National Institute of Education, 1984): 194-224. 
 
Desegregated Schools,” 103-25. 
43  Walter  G.  Stephan,  “Blacks  and  Brown:  The  Effects  of  School 
 
Desegregation on Black Students,” in School Desegregation and Black 
Achievement,  ed.  Thomas  Cook  et  al.  (Washington,  D.C.:  National 
Institute  of  Education,  1984):  131-59;  Lawrence  A.  Bradley  and 
Gifford W. Bradley, “The Academic Achievement of Black Students in 

42  Mahard  and  Crain,  “Research  on  Minority  Achievement  in 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 15 

  While  studies  on  academic  achievement  measure 
 
student  outcomes  (defined  mainly  by  test  scores),  the 
underlying reasons for these gains in achievement are not 
entirely  clear.44  Research  has  shown  that  children’s  moti-
vation  to  succeed  academically  is  significantly  related  to 
their  social  relationships  with  others,  social  skills,  and 
social  competence.45  It  also  appears,  however,  that  the 
improved achievement of students in integrated schools is, 
in  part,  related  to  the  fact  that  schools  with  greater 
proportions of non-minority students generally have better 
resources  to  help  improve  learning  opportunities,  as 
discussed in Part II. 

  The  findings  of  more  recent  studies  of  desegregated 
 
schools  are  consistent  with  earlier  findings.46  One  study 

 

 
Desegregated  Schools:  A  Critical  Review,”  Review  of  Educational 
Research 47, no. 3 (1977): 399-449. 
44  Whether standardized tests are a valid indicator of achievement 
 
or  future  success,  particularly  for  African  Americans,  has  been  ques-
tioned  when  discussing  student  achievement  in  desegregated  schools. 
Jacqueline  Fleming,  “Standardized  Test  Scores  and  the  Black  College 
Environment,”  in  Going  to  School:  The  African  American  Experience, 
ed. Kofi Lomotey (Albany, N.Y.: State Univ. of New York, 1990): 143-62; 
Christopher  Jencks  et  al.,  Inequality:  A  Reassessment  of  the  Effect  of 
Family and Schooling in America (New York: Basic Books, 1972). 
45  Kathryn R. Wentzel, “Adolescent Classroom Goals, Standards for 
 
Performance  and  Academic  Achievement:  An  Interactionist  Perspec-
tive,”  Journal  of  Educational  Psychology  81,  no.  2  (1989):  131-42; 
Wigfield  et  al.,  “Development  of  Achievement  Motivation;”  Allan 
Wigfield  and  Jacquelynne  S.  Eccles,  “Students’  Motivation  during  the 
Middle  School  Years,”  in  Improving  Academic  Achievement:  Impact  of 
Psychological  Factors  on  Education,  ed.  Joshua  Aronson  (San  Diego: 
Academic Press, 2002): 160-85. 
46  Kathryn  M.  Borman  et  al.,  “Accountability  in  a  Postdesegrega-
 
tion Era: The Continuing Significance of Racial Segregation in Florida’s 
Schools,”  American  Educational  Research  Journal,  41,  no.  3  (2004): 
605-31;  Stephen  J.  Caldas  and  Carl  Bankston,  “The  Inequality  of 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 16 

using  National  Assessment  of  Educational  Progress 
(NAEP)  data  across  every  state  found  that  when  control-
ling  for  socioeconomic  status,  most  of  the  negative  rela-
tionship  with  segregated  schools  and  achievement  is 
eliminated for whites but not for black students, although 
the relationship varied among states.47  

 
  A recent study in Texas analyzed the impact of racial 
composition  of  classmates  on  the  test  scores  of  students, 
from  4th  to  7th  grade.48  A  longitudinal  dataset  following 
multiple cohorts of 200,000 students across all Texas public 
schools enabled the researchers to track achievement score 
gains  on  an  annual  basis,  and in  this  respect  the  study  is 
methodologically  superior  to  studies  that  analyze  a  cross-
section  of  data  at  one  point  in  time.  The  study’s  findings 
suggest  that  a  decrease  in  the  black  percentage  of  class-
mates  for  black  students,  particularly  when  cumulated 
over  many  years,  could  have  a  substantial  impact  on 

 
Separation:  Racial  Composition  of Schools  and Academic Achievement,” 
Educational  Administration  Quarterly  34,  no.  4  (1998):  533-57;  Adam 
Gamoran,  “The  Stratification  of  High  School  Learning  Opportunities,” 
Sociology of Education 60, no. 3 (1987): 135-55; Jeannie Oakes, Multiply-
ing  Inequalities:  The  Effects  of  Race,  Social  Class,  and  Tracking  on 
Opportunities  to  Learn  Mathematics  and  Science  (Santa  Monica,  Calif.: 
Rand  Corporation,  1990);  Mark  Berends  et  al.,  Examining  Gaps  in 
Mathematics  Achievement  Among  Racial-Ethnic  Groups,  1972-1992 
(Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, 2005). 
47  David J. Armor, “Lessons Learned from School Desegregation,” in 
 
Generational  Change:  Closing  the  Test  Score  Gap,  ed.  Paul  Peterson 
(Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2006): 115-42. 
 
48  Eric  A.  Hanushek,  John  F.  Kain,  and  Steven  G.  Rivkin,  “New 
Evidence  about  Brown  v.  Board  of  Education:  The  Complex  Effects  of 
School  Racial  Composition  on Achievement,”  Working  paper,  National 
Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Mass., 2006. 

 

 

App. 17 

increasing their achievement.49 This relationship held even 
when  other  variables  such  as  school  quality  and  peers’ 
achievement  were  taken  into  account.  The  study  found 
that  desegregation  had  a  negligible  impact  on  white 
achievement  scores.  Thus,  decreasing  black  segregation 
may improve black achievement scores without adversely 
affecting white achievement scores. 

 
  While  the  findings  on  the  achievement  of  Latino 
students, who are the most segregated students of color in 
the  United  States,50  are  more  limited,  a  review  of  litera-
ture  on  the  effect  of  school  desegregation  found  that  the 
few early studies reported modestly positive or no effect on 
Latino achievement.51 A recent study examined the impact 
that ending court-ordered school desegregation in Keyes – 
where the Supreme Court established desegregation rights 
for  Latinos  –  had  for  students.  The  study  found  modest 
negative impacts on average math achievement levels for 
Latinos  in  racially  isolated  schools  in  Denver  relative  to 
Latinos  in  schools  that  are  more  racially  integrated.52  A 
study of 50 Mexican-origin students who displayed all the 

 

 

 
 
49  Specifically,  the  authors  found  that  an  increase  of  1%  of  black 
students was related to a decrease of .0225 of a standard deviation in 
the test scores of black students, per year. Desegregating black students 
across Texas in grades 5-7 alone would close the achievement gap with 
whites by 15 percent. 
50  Richard  R.  Valencia,  Martha  Menchaca,  and  Rubén  Donato, 
 
“Segregation, Desegregation, and Integration of Chicano Students: Old 
and  New  Realities,”  in  Chicano  School  Failure  and  Success:  Past, 
Present,  and  Future,  2nd  ed.,  ed.  Richard  R.  Valencia  (London: 
RoutledgeFalmer, 2002): 70-113. 
51  Schofield, “Review of Research,” 597-616. 
 
52  Catherine  Horn  and  Michal  Kurlaender,  The  End  of  Keyes  – 
 
Resegregation  Trends  and  Achievement  in  Denver  Public  Schools 
(Cambridge, Mass.: The Civil Rights Project, April 2006). 

 
 

App. 18 

characteristics  that  normally  predict  school  failure  (e.g., 
low-income,  parents  without  high  school  diplomas,  and 
Spanish-speaking  households)  but  who  excelled  academi-
cally  in  elite  colleges  and  universities  found  that  the 
overwhelming  majority  (70%)  of  these  students  had  at-
tended  desegregated  schools,  even  though  most  of  them 
lived  in  segregated  neighborhoods.  Among  the  critical 
aspects  of  this  desegregated  schooling  experience  was  the 
confidence it gave them to compete academically.53  

 
  In addition, educational research has documented how 
widespread  but  unfounded  beliefs  about  racial  inferiority 
hinder  the  academic  performance  of  minority  students. 
This  phenomenon  is  known  as  “stereotype  threat”  and  it 
undermines  performance  in  this  manner:  Students  per-
ceiving  stereotypic  expectations  about  their  own  intellect 
from teachers and fellow students and who are motivated 
to  disprove  these  stereotypes  can  become  distracted  in 
stressful assessment situations, such as testing, and fail 
to  perform  to  their  capacity.  Much  of  the  empirical  re-
search  documenting  the  effects  of  stereotype  threat  has 
been  done  among  college  students,54  but  research  also 
indicates  that  stereotype  threat  can  affect  elementary 
school  age  children.  For  example,  African-American, 
Latino, Asian, and Native American students (ages 6-10) 
who  were  aware  of  their  racial  group  stereotypes  per-
formed  significantly  worse  than  white  and  minority 
 
53  Patricia Gándara, Over the Ivy Walls: The Educational Mobility of 

 
Low Income Chicanos (Albany, N.Y.: State Univ. of New York Press, 1995). 
 
54  Claude  Steele  and  Joshua Aronson,  “Stereotype  Threat  and  the 
Intellectual Performance of African-Americans,” Journal of Personality 
and Social Psychology 69, no. 5 (1995): 797-811; Patricia M. Gonzalez, 
Hart Blanton, and Kevin J. Williams, “The Effects of Stereotype Threat 
and Double-Minority Status on the Test Performance of Latino Women,” 
Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 28, no. 5 (2002): 659-70. 

 

 

App. 19 

students  who  were  unaware  of  their  group  stereotypes.55 
In  addition  to  negatively  affecting  short-term  academic 
achievement  scores,  research  suggests  that  students  who 
feel threatened by stereotypes may adopt habits that will 
undermine future academic success.56 

 
  Numerous studies – recent as well as those that were 
conducted  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  court-ordered 
desegregation  –  suggest  that  school  desegregation  has 
little or no measurable negative impact on the test scores 
of  white  students.57  Thus,  fears  that  desegregation  will 
undermine  their  achievement  seem  unfounded.  Further, 
research  showed  that  there  were  no  gains  for  white 

 

 
 
55  Clark  McKown  and  Rhona  Weinstein,  “The  Development  and 
Consequences of Stereotype-Consciousness in Middle Childhood,” Child 
Development 74, no. 2 (2003): 498-515. Studies have also confirmed the 
effect of stereotype threat for girls in math. Catherine Good, Stereotype 
Threat  and  Its  Relation  to  Theories  of  Elementary  Girls’  Mathematics 
Achievement  and  Task  Choices  (Austin,  Tex.:  Univ.  of  Texas,  2001); 
Barbara Muzzatti, “Gender and Mathematics: Attitudes and Stereotype 
Threat  Susceptibility  in  Children,” (Ph.D.  diss.,  Università  degli  studi 
di  Padova,  2005);  Nalini  Ambady  et  al.,  “Stereotype  Susceptibility  in 
Children:  Effects  of  Identity Activation  on  Quantitative  Performance,” 
Psychological Science 12, no. 5 (2001): 385-90. 
56  Kira  Alexander  and  Janet  Ward  Schofield,  “Stereotype  Threat: 
 
How Students’ Responses to Perceived Negative Stereotypes Undermine 
their Achievement,” in Migration Background, Minority-Group Member-
ship  and  Academic  Achievement:  Research  Evidence  from  Social, 
Educational, and Developmental Psychology, ed. Janet Ward Schofield et 
al. (Berlin: Social Science Research Center Berlin, 2006): 13-42. 
57  Borman  et  al.,  “The  Continuing  Significance  of  Racial  Segrega-
 
tion  in  Florida’s  Schools,”  605-31;  Patchen,  “Black-White  Contact  in 
Schools,”  182-84;  Schofield,  “Review  of  Research,”  597-616;  Harry 
Singer,  Harold  B.  Gerald,  and  David  Redfearn,  “Achievement,”  in 
School  Desegregation:  A  Long-Term  Study,  ed.  Harold  B.  Gerard  and 
Norman Miller (New York, Plenum Press, 1975): 69-87. 

 

 

App. 20 

students  following  the  end  of  the  desegregation  plan  as 
schools resegregated in Denver.58 

 
Life Opportunities 
 
  Research shows that attendance at racially integrated 
schools  tends  to  improve  students’  life  opportunities, 
particularly  those  of  nonwhite  students.  Studies  find  that 
attending  desegregated  schools  is  related  to  completing 
high  school  for  nonwhite  students.59  Students  who  experi-
enced  integration  prior  to  attending  an  undergraduate 
institution  are  also  more  likely  to  connect  positively  with 
diverse peers in college and to exploit the academic oppor-
tunities that a diverse university can offer.60 These findings 

 

 
 

58  Horn and Kurlaender, The End of Keyes. 
 
 
59  Janet  Ward  Schofield,  “Maximizing  Benefits  of  Student  Diver-
sity:  Lessons  from  School  Desegregation  Research,”  in  Diversity 
Challenged:  Evidence  on  the  Impact  of  Affirmative  Action,  ed.  Gary 
Orfield with Michal Kurlaender (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard Education 
Publishing Group, 2001): 99-141; Walter G. Stephan, “School Desegre-
gation: Short and Long Term Effects,” in Opening Doors: Perspectives on 
Race Relations in Contemporary America, ed. Harry J. Knopke, Robert 
J.  Norrell,  and  Ronald  W.  Rogers  (Tuscaloosa, Ala.:  Univ.  of Alabama 
Press, 1991): 100-18. See Jonathan Guryan, “Desegregation and Black 
Dropout  Rates,”  American  Economic  Review  94,  no.  4  (2004):  919-43 
(results of a quasi-experimental study of the effect of school segregation 
on African-American students’ dropout rates found a modestly positive 
effect  of  desegregation  on  reducing  dropout  rates,  after  controlling  for 
family  characteristics);  Robert  L.  Crain  and  Carol  Sachs  Weisman, 
Discrimination,  Personality,  and  Achievement:  A  Survey  of  Northern 
Blacks (New York: Seminar Press, 1972). 
60  Anita-Yvonne  Bryant,  Nathan  D.  Martin,  and  Kenneth  I. 
 
Spenner, The Campus Life and Learning Project: A Report on the First 
Two  College  Years  (Durham,  N.C.:  Duke  University,  2006);  Victor  B. 
Saenz,  “Breaking  the  Cycle  of  Segregation:  Examining  Students’  Pre-
College  Racial  Environments  and  their  Diversity  Experiences  in 
College” (Ph.D. diss., University of California, 2005). 

 

App. 21 

are important because  college attendance and graduation 
have  become  increasingly  critical  for  economic  success, 
much  as  high  school  completion  was  at  the  time  of  the 
Brown decision. 

 
  Nonwhite  students  who  graduate  from  integrated 
schools  are  also  more  likely  to  have  access  to  the  social 
and  professional  networks  that  have  been  traditionally 
available  to  white  students.61  These  social  networks  can 
provide increased access to professional jobs and informa-
tion about college-going opportunities.62 Early research on 
the long-term outcomes of desegregated schools concluded 
that,  when  comparing  black  students  in  desegregated 
schools with black students in segregated schools, those in 
integrated  schools  often  have  more  realistic  occupational 
aspirations.63  Similarly,  minority  graduates  of  desegre-
gated  schools  tend  to  complete  more  years  of  education, 
earn higher degrees, and major in more varied occupations 
than  graduates  of  all-black  schools.64  For  instance,  one 
 
 
61  See  W.  E. B. DuBois, “Does the Negro Need Separate Schools?” 
Journal  of  Negro  Education  4,  no.  3  (July  1935):  328-35;  Mark 
Granovetter,  “The  Microstructure  of  School  Desegregation”  in  School 
Desegregation  Research.  New  Directions  in  Situational  Analysis,  ed. 
Jeffrey  Prager,  Douglas  Longshore,  and  Melvin  Seeman  (New  York: 
Plenum Press, 1986): 81-100. 
62  See  Jomills  H.  Braddock  et  al.,  “Applicant  Race  and  Job  Place-
 
ment Decisions: A National Survey Experiment,” International Journal 
of Sociology and Social Policy 6 (1986): 3-24. 
 
63  Amy  Stuart  Wells  and  Robert  L.  Crain,  “Perpetuation  Theory 
and the Long-Term Effects of School Desegregation,” Review of Educa-
tional Research 64, no. 4 (1994): 531-55. 
64  Jomills H. Braddock and James M. McPartland, “How Minorities 
 
Continue  to  be  Excluded  from  Equal  Employment  Opportunities: 
Research  on  Labor  Market  and  Institutional  Barriers,”  Journal  of 
Social  Issues  43,  no.  1  (1987):  5-39;  Wells  and  Crain,  “Perpetuation 
Theory and the Long-Term Effects of School Desegregation,” 531-55. 

 

 

 

 

App. 22 

such  study  found  that  black  graduates  of  predominantly 
white  high  schools  are  five  times  as  likely  to  major  in 
architecture  and  nearly  four  times  as  likely  to  major  in 
computer science as black graduates of segregated schools.65 

 
  Research  examining  the  long-term  labor  market 
implications  of  desegregation  found  that  the  incomes  of 
southern-born  blacks  rose  after  desegregation  was  imple-
mented.66 A study of a random sample of black students in 
Hartford, Connecticut found that those attending desegre-
gated schools, when compared with other black students in 
their cohort, were more likely to have white-collar jobs and 
were  more  likely  to  have  more  years  of  education.67  An-
other study using a larger sample of black Americans over 
a  period  of  decades  noted  that  school  segregation  was 
negatively related to wages, and that this relationship was 
statistically  significant  even  when  controlling  for  a  num-
ber  of  other  background  characteristics.68  As  in  other 
studies mentioned above, an intervening factor explaining 

 

 

 
 
65  Jomills  H.  Braddock,  “Segregated  High  School  Experiences  and 
Black  Students’  College  and  Major  Field  Choices”  (paper  presented  at 
the  National  Conference  on  School  Desegregation,  Chicago,  Ill.,  June 
1987). 
66  Orley Ashenfelter, William J. Collins, and Albert Yoon, “Evaluat-
 
ing  the  Role  of  Brown  vs.  Board  of  Education  in  School  Equalization, 
Desegregation,  and  the  Income  of African Americans,”  Working  paper, 
National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Mass., 2005. 
 
67  Robert  L.  Crain  and  Jack  Strauss,  School  Desegregation  and 
Black Occupational Attainments: Results from a Long-Term Experiment 
(Baltimore,  Md.:  Center  for  Social  Organization  of  Schools,  Johns 
Hopkins Univ., 1985). 
 
68  Michael A. Boozer et al., “Race and School Quality since Brown v. 
Board  of  Education,”  in  Brookings  Papers  on  Economic  Activity, 
Microeconomics, ed. Martin Neil Baily and Clifford Winston (Washing-
ton, D.C.: The Brookings Institution, 1992): 269-338. 

 

 

App. 23 

the  increased  earnings  was  that  school  desegregation  for 
blacks was associated with more years of education.69 

 
  Studies  show  that  black  and  white  individuals  who 
attended  desegregated  schools  are  more  likely  to  have 
friends from other races, work in desegregated workplaces, 
live  in  desegregated  neighborhoods,  and  favor  desegre-
gated schools for their own children, beyond the influence 
of  personal  characteristics  such  as  socioeconomic  status, 
achievement  scores,  or  geography.70  An  in-depth  study  of 
minority  students  from  an  urban  area  who  attended 
predominantly white suburban schools found that partici-
pants  felt  far  more  comfortable  in  racially  diverse  or 
predominantly white environments than did their friends 
and  family  members  who  lacked  such  desegregated  ex-
periences.71  These  former  students,  now  adults,  also  felt 
better  prepared  for  unique  leadership  roles  in  the  city 
because  of  their  experience  in  both  white  and  nonwhite 
communities. This is consistent with data that reveal that 
students  of  all  racial  and  ethnic  groups  who  attend  more 

 
69  See also Guryan, “Desegregation and Black Dropout Rates,” 919-

 
 
43. 
 
 
70  Jomills  H.  Braddock,  Robert  L.  Crain,  and  James  M.  McPart-
land, “A Long-Term View of School Desegregation: Some Recent Studies 
of Graduates as Adults,” Phi Delta Kappan 66, no. 4 (1984): 259-64. See 
Jomills H. Braddock, “The Perpetuation of Segregation Across Levels of 
Education:  A  Behavioral  Assessment  of  the  Contact-Hypothesis,” 
Sociology of Education 53 (1980): 178-86; Julie E. Kaufman and James 
Rosenbaum,  “The  Education  and  Employment  of  Low-Income  Black 
Youth in White Suburbs,” Education Evaluation and Policy Analysis 14, 
no.  3  (1992):  229-40;  Jomills  H.  Braddock  and  James  M.  McPartland, 
“Assessing School Desegregation Effects: New Directions in Research,” 
Research in Sociology of Education and Socialization 3 (1982): 259-82. 
 
Yale Univ. Press, 2001). 

71  Susan Eaton, The Other Boston Busing Story (New Haven, Conn.: 

 

App. 24 

diverse  schools  report  stronger  support  for  postsecondary 
participation72 and an increased sense of civic engagement 
than  their  more  segregated  peers.73  These  findings  show 
that integrated schooling experiences perpetuate desegre-
gation across several contexts.74  

 
Producing a Workforce for the Twenty-First Century 
 
  Because  racially  integrated  schools  can  uniquely 
enhance  cross-racial  understanding  through  intergroup 
contact  that  is  not  possible  in  racially  and  ethnically 
homogeneous  schools,  they  help  prepare  students  for  the 
demands  of  today’s  workplace.  Experiences  in  racially 
diverse  classrooms  make  it  more  likely  that  people  will 
bring  fewer  racial  and  ethnic  stereotypes  into  the  work-
place,  and  will  work  more  productively  with  other  mem-
bers  of  an  increasingly  diverse  nation.75  For  example,  the 
U.S. military found that establishing policies that encour-
aged black participation and leadership were essential for 
effective functioning of the military in the aftermath of the 
Vietnam  War  and  in  a  multiracial  society.  In  fact,  the 
 
72  Yun  and  Kurlaender,  “School  Racial  Composition  and  Student 

 
Educational Aspirations,” 143-68. 
 
73  Michal  Kurlaender  and  John  T.  Yun,  “Fifty  Years  after  Brown: 
New  Evidence  of  the  Impact  of  School  Racial  Composition  on  Student 
Outcomes,” International Journal of Educational Policy, Research and 
Practice 6, no. 1. (2005): 51-78. 
 
74  Braddock, Crain, and McPartland, “A Long-Term View of School 
Desegregation,” 259-64; Jomills H. Braddock and James M. McPartland, 
“Social-Psychological Processes that Perpetuate Racial Segregation: The 
Relationship between School and Employment Discrimination,” Journal 
of  Black  Studies  19,  no.  3  (March  1989):  267-89;  Braddock,  Dawkins, 
and Trent, “Why Desegregate?,” 273-83; Wells and Crain, “Perpetuation 
Theory and the Long-Term Effects of School Desegregation,” 531-55. 
 

75  Hawley, “Designing Schools.” 

 

 

 

 

App. 25 

military  realized  that  one  of  the  most  effective  ways  to 
develop  interracial  cooperation  was  through  intergroup 
contact,  under  conditions  of  equal  treatment,  and  assign-
ments requiring collaboration across racial lines.76 A 2001 
study commissioned for the U.S. National Education Goals 
Panel  pointed  out  that  the  Defense  Department  schools 
have  a  substantially  lower  racial  achievement  gap  than 
most  states,  despite  the  fact  that  students  came  from 
families  that  were  below  average  in  socioeconomic  status 
and parental education.77 

 
Residential Segregation 
 
  Research  also  shows  that  while  residential  segrega-
tion usually drives school segregation, integrated schools can 
help  reduce  residential  segregation.78  A  recent  analysis 
suggests that school desegregation, when fully implemented, 

 

 

 
 
76  Charles C. Moskos and John Sibley Butler, All That We Can Be: 
Black  Leadership  and  Racial  Integration  the  Army  Way  (New  York: 
Basic Books, 1997).  
 
77  Claire Smrekar et al., March Toward Excellence: School Success 
and  Minority  Student  Achievement  in  Department  of  Defense  Schools 
(National Education Goals Panel: Peabody Center for Education Policy, 
Vanderbilt Univ., September 2001): iii-v, 39, 43. See also “In Pentagon-
Run  Schools,  the  Achievement  Gap  Shrinks,”  Education  Week  (29 
March 2000): 1, 20-21. 
78  Diana  Pearce,  Breaking  Down  Barriers:  New  Evidence  on  the 
 
Impact  of  Metropolitan  School  Desegregation  on  Housing  Patterns, 
Final  Report  (Washington,  D.C.:  Catholic  Univ.  of  America,  1980); 
Robert  Crain,  Reynolds  Farley,  and  Diana  Pearce,  “Lessons  Not  Lost: 
The Effect of School Desegregation on the Rate of Residential Desegre-
gation  in  Large  Center  Cities”  (paper  presented  at  annual  meeting  of 
the  American  Educational  Research  Association,  New  Orleans,  La., 
April 1984). 

 

App. 26 

can  lead  to  more  integrated  residential  patterns.79  While 
the  percentage  of  white  student  enrollment  in  public 
schools has dropped substantially in virtually every urban 
district regardless of the presence or type of desegregation 
plan,80 in areas with limited central city plans, the decline 
of  white  enrollment  has  accelerated81  while  regional  or 
countywide  plans  can  help  maintain  stable  integration  of 
whites and nonwhites.82  

 
  Research shows that if pockets of racially identifiable 
schools  exist  in  a  partially  desegregated  school  district, 
white parents are more likely to seek out schools that are 
predominately  white.83 A  study  of  metropolitan  Charlotte 
illustrated  that  the  part  of  the  county  excluded  from  the 
desegregation  plan  spurred  white  flight.84  However,  in  a 
regional  school  district  where  all  schools  are  racially  bal-
anced, the incidence of flight is reduced. An analysis of the 
largest 100 metropolitan areas noted that “white households 
are less likely to flee racially mixed environments if they are 

 

 

 

 
 
79  Myron Orfield and Thomas Luce, Minority Suburbanization and 
Racial  Change:  Stable  Integration,  Neighborhood  Transition,  and  the 
Need  for  Regional  Approaches  (Minneapolis:  Institute  on  Race  & 
Poverty, 2005). 
80  Erica Frankenberg, Chungmei Lee, and Gary Orfield, A Multira-
 
cial  Society  with  Segregated  Schools:  Are  We  Losing  the  Dream? 
(Cambridge, Mass.: The Civil Rights Project, 2003). 
 
Desegregation (Princeton, N. J.: Princeton Univ. Press, 2004). 
 
82  Erica Frankenberg and Chungmei Lee, Race in American Public 
Schools: Rapidly Resegregating School Districts (Cambridge, Mass.: The 
Civil Rights Project, 2002). 
83  Pearce, Breaking Down Barriers. 
 
84  J. Dennis Lord and John C. Catau, “School Desegregation Policy 
 
and Intra-School District Migration,” Social Science Quarterly 57, no. 4 
(March 1977): 784-796. 

81  Charles T. Clotfelter, After Brown: The Rise and Retreat of School 

 
 

 

App. 27 

confident  that  their  children  will  continue  to  attend  inte-
grated  schools  even  if  the  racial  mix  of  the  neighborhood 
changes.”85  Likewise,  in  Lynn,  Massachusetts,  an  older 
industrial  city  outside  of  Boston,  the  rapid  racial  transi-
tion in the housing market ended after a voluntary deseg-
regation  plan  was  adopted.86  The  implications  of  these 
findings are clear: if school districts fully integrate, hous-
ing patterns stabilize and white flight is minimized.87  

 
Parental Involvement 
  Desegregated  school  systems  tend  to  have  higher 
 
levels  of  parental  involvement  relative  to  segregated 
minority schools. This may be the case because there is a 
greater  incentive  for  all  residents  to  commit  their  re-
sources to the success of the school system as a whole.88 A 
study by the National Research Council showed far higher 
levels  of  volunteers  in  integrated  schools  compared  to 
heavily  nonwhite  schools  and  even  sharper  differences 
among  private  schools.89  Case  studies  showed  that  after 

 

 

 
85  Orfield and Luce, Minority Suburbanization and Racial Change. 

 
See also Hawley et al., Strategies for Effective School Desegregation. 
 
86  Richard Cole, “Fostering an Inclusive, Multiracial Democracy,” in 
Lessons  in  Integration:  Realizing  the  Promise  of  Racial  Diversity  in 
America’s  Schools,  ed.  Erica  Frankenberg  and  Gary  Orfield  (Char-
lottesville, Va.: Univ. of Virginia Press, in press) (Lynn counsel of record 
discussing  social  science  evidence  supporting  legal  arguments  in 
Comfort v. Lynn School Committee, 418 F.3d 1 (2005)). 
87  Orfield and Luce, Minority Suburbanization and Racial Change. 
 
 
88  Gary Orfield, “Metropolitan School Desegregation,” in In Pursuit 
of a Dream Deferred: Linking Housing and Education Policy, ed. John 
A.  Powell,  Gavin  Kearney,  and  Vina  Kay  (New  York:  Peter  Lang 
Publishing, 2001): 121-57. 
 
D.C.: National Academy Press, 1990): 18-20. 

89  Bernard Michael, ed., Volunteers in Public Schools (Washington, 

 
 

 

App. 28 

neighborhood schools were restored and segregation rose, 
parent involvement declined.90 In Boston, minority parents 
with  children  attending  city  neighborhood  schools  and 
integrated suburban schools reported more involvement in 
the  diverse  suburban  schools  even  though  these  schools 
were located farther away.91  

 
II.  The Harms of Racially Isolated Minority Schools. 
  Social science research over the past half century has 
 
confirmed the basic findings of the Court in Brown and its 
progeny of cases, including Green v. County School Bd. of 
New  Kent  County92  and  Swann  v.  Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
Bd. of Ed.,93 that racially segregated schools fail to provide 
students with equal learning opportunities. Although there 
are  examples  of  academically successful  schools  with  high 
concentrations  of  nonwhite  students  in  African-American 
communities,  they  are  uncommon94  and  often  the  result  of 
stable,  committed  leadership,  faculty,  and  parents.  More 
often,  however,  despite  determined  individual  efforts, 
schools  with  high  concentrations  of  nonwhite  students  do 
not  perform  as  well  as  those  with  high  concentrations  of 
white  students  due  to  inequalities  that  exist.  And  these 
inequalities have harmful educational implications for all 

 

 

 
90  Gary Orfield and Susan E. Eaton, ed., Dismantling Segregation 

 
(New York: The New Press, 1996). 
 
91  Gary  Orfield  et.  al.,  City-Suburban  Desegregation:  Parent  and 
Student  Perspectives  in  Metropolitan  Boston  (Cambridge,  Mass.:  The 
Civil Rights Project, 1997). 
92  391 U.S. 430 (1968).  
 
93  402 U.S. 1 (1971). 
 
 
94  Douglas N. Harris, “High Flying Schools, Student Disadvantage 
and the Logic of NCLB,” American Journal of Education (forthcoming). 

 
 
 

App. 29 

students in such schools and are particularly detrimental 
for  the  millions  of  low-income  minority  children  from 
families without high levels of parent education.95 

  Although  not  true  everywhere,  poor  white  students, 
 
on  average,  generally  do  not  attend  schools  with  many 
other poor students, black or white. Poor black and Latino 
students,  on  the  other  hand,  are  statistically  much  more 
likely to attend a school of concentrated poverty and racial 
isolation.96 This is partially due to residential segregation 
by race,  which drives segregation independent of afforda-
bility.  Lower  minority  incomes  compound  segregation  by 

 

 
 
95  Evidence  since  the  1966  Coleman  Report  suggests  that  school 
reforms have larger impacts on more disadvantaged children compared 
with the more powerful home effects on privileged children, which may 
explain  why  desegregation  studies  often  show  minority  gains  in 
academic outcomes with no losses for white students. Daniel Monyihan 
and Frederick Mosteller, On Equality of Educational Opportunity (New 
York: Random House, 1972); Frederick Mosteller, Richard J. Light, and 
Jason  A.  Sachs,  “Sustained  Inquiry  in  Education:  Lessons  from  Skill 
Grouping  and  Class  Size,”  Harvard  Educational  Review  66,  no.  4 
(1996): 797-842. Further, lower-achieving students have been found to 
have  more  substantial  gains  when  they  are  surrounded  by  higher-
achieving  peers.  Julian  Betts,  Andrew  C.  Zau,  and  Lorien  A.  Rice, 
Determinants  of  Student  Achievement:  New  Evidence  from  San  Diego 
(San  Francisco:  Public  Policy  Institute  of  California,  2003);  Caroline 
Hoxby, “Peer Effects in the Classroom: Learning from Gender and Race 
Variation,”  Working  paper,  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Research, 
Cambridge, Mass., August 2000. 
96  Almost  nine-tenths  of  intensely  segregated  black  and  Latino 
 
schools  also  have  student  bodies  where  a  majority  of  students  come 
from families below the poverty line. Gary Orfield and Chungmei Lee, 
Racial  Transformation  and  the  Changing  Nature  of  Segregation 
(Cambridge, Mass.: The Civil Rights Project, 2006). See also Salvatore 
Saporito  and  Deenesh  Sohoni,  “Mapping  Educational  Inequality: 
Concentrations of Poverty among Poor and Minority Students in Public 
Schools,” Social Forces (forthcoming). 

 

App. 30 

concentrating  lower  income  minority  residents.97 A  recent 
study  also  suggests  that  wealthier  students  choose  to 
attend private, charter, or magnet schools at a higher rate 
in  neighborhoods  with  a  greater  percentage  of  minority 
residents.98 These studies suggest that race is a determin-
ing  factor  in  school  segregation  beyond  the  influence  of 
class. 

 
  Segregated  minority  schools  offer  notably  weaker 
educational opportunities. They tend to have  more teach-
ers  without  credentials  who  teach  subjects  in  which  they 
are not certified, more instability caused by rapid turnover 
of  both  students  and  faculty,  more  limited  academic 
curriculum,  and  more  exposure  to  crime  and  violence  in 
the  school’s  neighborhood.  Accordingly,  the  educational 
outcomes in segregated schools tend to be lower in terms 
of scores on achievement tests and high school graduation 
rates,  and  dropout  levels  rise  as  the  level  of  segregation 
increases.99 

 
  By  eliminating  racially  isolated  minority  schools, 
integration  prevents  the  educational  harms  for  students 
enrolled  in  these  schools  and  provides  the  opportunity  to 
build understanding across racial lines. 

 

 
 
 

97  Massey and Denton, American Apartheid 
 
 
98  Saporito and Sohoni, “Mapping Educational Inequality.” 
 
99  A recent report from the United Nations Human Rights Commis-
sion  also  suggested  that  de  facto  school  segregation  could  violate 
international  human  rights  treaties  to  which  the  U.S.  is  a  signatory. 
Matthew  Samberg,  “U.N.  Criticizes  Segregation  in  U.S.  Schools; 
Supreme  Court  to  Hear  Cases  Challenging  Integration,”  National 
Access,  16  August  2006  at  www.schoolfunding.info/news/litigation/8-16-
06Unsegregation.php3 (accessed 29 September 2006). 

App. 31 

Teacher Mobility and Quality 
  Research shows that teachers are more likely to leave 
 
segregated  black  and  Latino  schools,  which  results  in 
higher  teacher  turnover  at  these  schools.  According  to 
studies  that  investigate  teacher  turnover  in  segregated 
minority  schools,  race  is  the  driving  factor  in  predicting 
teacher  mobility,  more  so  than  working  conditions  or 
student poverty.100 White teachers – who comprise 85% of 
the teaching force – often transfer to schools with a lower 
minority  percentage.101  These  patterns  exist  even  when 
teacher salary is held constant.  

 

 
  The  effects  of  these  teacher  trends  have  serious 
educational  consequences  for  students  at  these  schools 
because,  as  researchers  and  policymakers  generally 
concur,  teachers  greatly  influence  student  learning  and 
teaching  experience  is  critical  to  their  effectiveness.  A 
national report examining school quality concluded that 
“students  learn  more  from  teachers  with  strong  aca-
demic  skills  and  classroom  teaching  experience.”102  The 
 
 
100  Benjamin  Scafidi,  David  L.  Sjoquist,  and  Todd  Stinebrickner, 
“Race,  Poverty,  and  Teacher  Mobility,”  Working  paper,  Andrew  Young 
School  of  Policy  Studies  Research  Paper  Series,  Atlanta,  Ga.,  August 
2005; Susanna Loeb, Linda Darling-Hammond, and John Luczak, “How 
Teaching  Conditions  Predict  Teacher  Turnover  in  California  Schools,” 
Peabody Journal of Education 80, no. 3 (2005): 44-70. 
101  Hamilton  Lankford,  Susanna  Loeb,  and  James  Wyckoff, 
 
“Teacher  Sorting  and  the  Plight  of  Urban  Schools:  A  Descriptive 
Analysis,” Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis 24, no. 1 (2002): 
37-62;  Susan  Watson,  Recruiting  and  Retaining  Teachers:  Keys  to 
Improving  the  Philadelphia  Public  Schools  (Philadelphia:  Consortium 
for Policy Research in Education, 2001). 
102  Daniel  Mayer,  John  Mullens,  and  Mary  T.  Moore,  Monitoring 
 
School  Quality:  An  Indicators  Report  (Washington,  D.C.:  U.S.  Depart-
ment  of  Education,  National  Center  for  Education  Statistics,  Office  of 
Educational Research and Improvement, 2000): 5. 

 

 

App. 32 

differential  exposure  of  black  students  to  novice  teachers 
could  be  a  factor  contributing  to  the  persistent  achieve-
ment gap.103 

  The fact that it is harder for racially isolated minority 
 
schools  to  retain  qualified  teachers  means  that  these 
schools  disproportionately  have  teachers  with 
lesser 
qualifications104 or teachers who are unqualified. Research 
also reveals that black and Latino students, in particular, 
are  taught  by  a  greater  proportion  of  new  teachers,105 
teachers  with  fewer  years  of  experience,106  and  go  to 
schools  that  are  characterized  by  instability  and  the 

 

 

 

 
103  Charles Clotfelter, Helen Ladd, and Jacob Vigdor, “Who Teaches 
 
Whom?  Race  and  the  Distribution  of  Novice  Teachers,”  Economics  of 
Education  Review,  24,  no.  4  (August  2005):  377-92;  Steven  G.  Rivkin, 
Eric A. Hanushek, and John F. Kain, “Teachers, Schools, and Academic 
Achievement,” Econometrica 73, no. 2 (March 2005): 417-58. 
 
104  Camille  E.  Esch  et  al.,  The  Status  of  the  Teaching  Profession 
2005  (Santa  Cruz,  Calif.:  The  Center  for  the  Future  of  Teaching  and 
Learning,  2005);  Jennifer  B.  Presley,  Bradford  R.  White,  and  Yuqin 
Gong,  Examining  the  Distribution  and  Impact  of  Teacher  Quality  in 
Illinois (Edwardsville, Ill.: Illinois Education Research Council, 2005). 
105  Susanna  Loeb  and  Michelle  Reininger,  Public  Policy  and 
 
Teacher  Labor  Markets:  What  We  Know  and  Why  it  Matters  (East 
Lansing, Mich.: The Education Policy Center at Michigan State Univ., 
2004);  Catherine  Freeman,  Benjamin  Scafidi,  and  David  Sjoquist, 
“Racial  Segregation  in  Georgia  Public  Schools,  1994-2001:  Trends, 
Causes and Impact on Teacher Quality,” in School Resegregation: Must 
the South Turn Back? ed. John C. Boger and Gary Orfield (Chapel Hill, 
N.C.: Univ. of North Carolina Press, 2005): 148-63; Stephen J. Carroll 
et al., The Distribution of Teachers among California’s School Districts 
and Schools (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, 2000). 
106  U.S.  Department  of  Education,  Monitoring  School  Quality; 
 
Clotfelter,  Ladd,  and  Vigdor,  “Who  Teaches  Whom?”  377-92;  Rivkin, 
Hanushek, and Kain, “Teachers, Schools, and Academic Achievement,” 
417-58. 

 

App. 33 

absence  of  viable  learning  communities,  due  at  least  in 
part to the higher teacher turnover rate.  

 

 
Concentrated Educational Disadvantages 
  Research  has  consistently  documented  that  schools 
 
with higher percentages of minority students tend to have 
fewer  educational  resources.107  This  relationship  holds 
whether the resources are class size, facilities, or per-pupil 
spending.108  Research  suggests  that  curricular  resources, 
including honors and AP courses, are not equally available 
for  schools  serving  larger  shares  of  minority  students.109 
Students in segregated schools are also denied equal educa-
tional  opportunity  due  to  curricular  tracking,  impersonal 
counseling,  and  inadequate  community  outreach.110  An 
 
 
107  Meredith Phillips and Tiffani Chin, “School Inequality: What Do 
We  Know?”  in  Social  Inequality,  ed.  Kathryn  Neckerman  (New  York: 
Russell Sage Foundation, 2004): 467-519. 
 
108  Harry Ashmore, The Negro and the Schools (Chapel Hill: Univ. 
of North Carolina Press, 1954); Juan Necochea and Cline Zulmara, “A 
Case  Study  Analysis  of  Within  District  School  Funding  Inequities,” 
Equity  and  Excellence  in  Education  29,  no.  2  (1996):  69-77;  Lawrence 
Picus,  “Estimating  the  Determinants of  Pupil/Teacher  Ratio:  Evidence 
from  the  Schools  and Staffing  Survey,” Educational  Considerations  21 
(1994):  44-55;  The  Education  Trust,  The  Funding  Gap  2005:  Low-
Income and Minority Students Shortchanged by Most States (Washing-
ton, D.C.: The Education Trust, Winter 2005). 
109  Ruth  B.  Ekstrom,  Margaret  E.  Goertz,  and  Donald  Rock, 
 
Education and American Youth (Philadelphia: The Falmer Press, 1988); 
Gamoran,  “The  Stratification  of  High  School  Learning  Opportunities,” 
135-55;  Jeannie  Oakes, Adam  Gamoran,  and  Reba  N.  Page,  “Curricu-
lum  Differentiation:  Opportunities,  Outcomes,  and  Meanings,”  in 
Handbook of Research on Curriculum, ed. Philip W. Jackson (New York: 
MacMillan, 1992): 570-608. 
110  Gary  Orfield,  “A  Secret  Success:  Racial  Equity  and  Integration 
 
in  Indiana  Schools”  in  Advances  in  Educational  Policy,  vol.  3  ed. 
Kenneth Wong (Greenwich, Conn.: JAI Press, 1997): 225-48. 

 

 

 

App. 34 

analysis of educational opportunity in California found that 
students in segregated black and Latino schools face multi-
ple  disadvantages  concentrated  in  their  schools,  all  of 
which  can  limit  their  access  to  higher  educational  oppor-
tunities.111 

 
  The  larger  community  context  of  predominantly 
minority schools has a negative impact on the educational 
environment  of  these  schools  and  can  influence  a  broad 
range of educational factors such as whether teachers seek 
employment or whether parents will send their children to 
schools in these communities. Segregated minority schools 
are  often  located  in  the  poorest  neighborhoods  and  in 
areas with high crime rates, a more transient population, 
fewer  employed  residents,  more  vacant  lots,  and  fewer 
institutional  assets  such  as  libraries.112  Research  also 
demonstrates that school staff in segregated communities 
tend not to be as responsive to community needs, promote 
lower  expectations  for  students,  and  lack  cultural  or 
linguistic competence.113 

 

 

 
111  John T. Yun and Jose F. Moreno, “College Access, K-12 Concen-
trated  Disadvantage,  and  the  Next  25  Years  of  Education  Research,” 
Educational Researcher 35, no. 1 (2006): 12-9. See also Jeannie Oakes 
et al., Separate and Unequal 50 years after Brown: California’s Racial 
“Opportunity  Gap”  (Los  Angeles:  Institute  for  Democracy,  Education, 
and Access, Univ. of California-Los Angeles, 2004). 
112  Ellen Goldring et al., “Schooling Closer to Home: Desegregation 
 
Policy  and  Neighborhood  Contexts,”  American  Journal  of  Education 
112, no. 3 (2006): 335-62. 
113  Russell  Rumberger  and  Patricia  Gándara,  “Seeking  Equity  in 
 
the  Education  of  California’s  English  Learners,”  Teachers  College 
Record, 106, no. 10 (October 2004): 2039-56. 

 

 

App. 35 

Peer Effects  
 
  The 1966 Coleman Report, which was titled Equality 
of  Educational  Opportunity,  was  the  first  large-scale, 
national statistical examination of schools of its kind, and 
had  a  major  influence  on  how  the  nation  and  its  policy-
makers  viewed  resources  that  are  important  to  student 
learning.  This  Congressionally  mandated  report  found 
that  the  composition  of  a  student’s  school  peers  had  a 
substantial  influence  on  his  or  her  academic  achieve-
ment.114  Social  science  research  continues  to  confirm  the 
report’s finding that one’s peers matter for learning.115 

 
  A  specific  example  of  the  importance  of  peers  in 
affecting  one’s  learning  relates  to  non-English  speakers 
learning  English.  Because  Latino  students  live  in  pre-
dominantly  segregated  low-income  neighborhoods  where 
everyday  activities  are  conducted  in  Spanish,  they  have 
limited  exposure  to  English.  This  isolation  has  a  direct 
impact  on  language  acquisition  because  exposure  to  the 
target language is critical to proficiency.116 Schools can be a 
place  to  provide  Latino  English  Language  Learners  with 

 

 

 
114  James  Coleman  et  al.,  Equality  of  Educational  Opportunity 

 
(Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1966). 
 
115  Donna R. Clasen and B. Bradford Brown, “The Multidimension-
ality  of  Peer  Pressure  in  Adolescence,”  Journal  of  Youth  and  Adoles-
cence  14,  no.  6  (1985):  451-67;  Laurence  Steinberg,  Stanford  M. 
Dornbusch, and B. Bradford Brown, “Ethnic Differences in Adolescent 
Achievement: An Ecological Perspective,” American Psychologist 47, no. 
6 (1997): 723-29; Geoffrey D. Borman and N. Maritza Dowling, “Schools 
and Inequality: A Multilevel Analysis of  Coleman’s Equality of Educa-
tional  Opportunity  Data”  (paper  presented  at  annual  meeting  of  the 
American Educational Research Association, Chicago, April 2003).  
116  Russell  W. Rumberger, Patricia Gándara, and Barbara Merino, 
 
“Where  California’s  English  Learners  Attend  School  and  Why  it 
Matters,” UC LMRI Newsletter 15, no. 2 (Winter 2006): 1-2. 

 

App. 36 

meaningful  opportunities  to  interact  with  native  English 
Language models as a first step toward the acquisition of 
English.117  

  One of the arguments for ending racial segregation has 
 
been  the  benefit  of  increasing  the  number  of  middle-class 
children  in  classrooms  of  black  and  Latino  students,  be-
cause  evidence  demonstrates  that  a  classroom  of  students 
from middle-class families can increase the achievement of 
all students.118 Because black and Latino students are more 
likely to attend schools of concentrated poverty than whites, 
racially segregated minority schools are less likely to have 
middle-class  or  wealthy  students.  This  may  occur  because 
more  middle-class  children  than  poor  children  have  been 
exposed  to  additional  educational  resources  prior  to  and 
outside of school, teachers drawn to middle-class schools are 
more  qualified  and  have  higher  expectations  than  those 
who  teach  at  high-poverty  schools,  and  the  academic 
curriculum may be more challenging.119 Of course, creating 
middle-class classrooms in itself would not likely produce 

 

 
 

 
 
117  M.  Beatriz  Arias,  “School  Desegregation,  Linguistic  Isolation 
and  Access  to  English  for  Latino  Students,”  Journal  on  Educational 
Controversy 2, no. 1 (January 2007).  
 
118  Rothstein, Class and Schools. 
 
119  Richard  D.  Kahlenberg,  All  Together  Now:  Creating  Middle-
Class  Schools  through  Public  School  Choice  (Washington,  D.C.:  The 
Brookings Institution Press, 2001); Russell W. Rumberger and Gregory 
J.  Palardy,  “Does  Segregation  Still  Matter?  The  Impact  of  Student 
Composition  on  Academic  Achievement  in  High  School,”  Teacher’s 
College Record 107, no. 9 (2005): 1999-2045; Hoxby, “Peer Effects in the 
Classroom;” Janet W. Schofield, “Ability Grouping, Composition Effects, 
and  the Achievement  Gap,”  in  Migration Background, Minority-Group 
Membership and Academic Achievement Research Evidence from Social, 
Educational,  and  Development  Psychology,  ed.  Janet  W.  Schofield 
(Berlin: Social Science Research Center Berlin, 2006): 67-95. 

App. 37 

the same gains in cross-racial understanding that occur in 
classrooms with racially diverse peers. 

 
Lower Educational Outcomes 
! Achievement 
!
  As  a  result  of  teacher  and  resource  disparities  – 
 
important  educational  conditions  for  student  success  – 
district  and  metropolitan  area  case  studies  examining 
segregated  minority  schools  find  lower  achievement  in 
these  schools. A  study  of  schools  in  metropolitan  Boston, 
for  example,  shows  that  only  61  percent  of  tenth-grade 
students in high-poverty, high-minority schools passed the 
English/Language  Arts  graduation  test  in  the  2002-03 
school year compared to 96 percent of students attending 
low-minority,  low-poverty  schools.120  A  study  of  Florida 
districts  found  similar  disparities  in  passage  rates  for 
graduation  exams  in  segregated  black  schools  compared 
with desegregated or racially isolated white schools.121 

 
  Studies  conducted  in  one  southern  district  indicate 
that the achievement of middle and high school students is 
related to the racial composition of schools they attended. 
These  studies,  which  controlled  for  factors  such  as  a 
student’s  family  background,  prior  achievement,  peer 
effects,  and  self-reported  academic  effort,  indicated  that 
 
 
120  This conclusion is not surprising given that segregated minority 
schools  in  metropolitan  Boston  have  higher  levels  of  student  poverty 
(97% of minority schools vs. 1% of segregated white schools), lower shares 
of certified teachers (78% in high poverty, minority schools vs. 94% in low 
poverty, white schools), lower test scores, and lower high school comple-
tion rates. Chungmei Lee, Educational Outcomes in Metropolitan Boston 
(Cambridge, Mass.: The Civil Rights Project, April 2004). 
 
tion in Florida’s Schools,” 605-31. 

121  Borman et al., “The Continuing Significance of Racial Segrega-

 

 

App. 38 

the  more  time  students  spent  in  predominantly  black  ele-
mentary  schools  the  lower  their  scores  on  statewide  tests, 
their grade point averages, and their secondary track place-
ments.122  Across  the  state  of  North  Carolina,  40  of  the  44 
lowest-performing  high  schools  identified  by  a  state  court 
judge were predominantly nonwhite including 23 that were 
80 to 100 percent nonwhite. These poorly performing schools 
were found to be so ineffective as to deny students their legal 
right to a sound, basic education. By contrast, none of the 44 
highest performing schools was predominantly nonwhite.123 
 
  High School Graduation 
 
  Research  shows  that  minority  isolation  remains  a 
 
significant predictor of low graduation rates. This appears 
to be the case even after holding constant the effects of a 
variety  of  other  school  performance  indicators.124  This 
pattern also emerges when examining graduation rates for 
specific racial and ethnic groups: students from all minor-
ity  groups  graduate  at  significantly  lower  rates  in  highly 
isolated  school  systems.  White  students  are  also  least 
likely  to  graduate  when  they  attend  school  in  racially 
segregated minority environments.125  

 

 

 
122  Roslyn A. Mickelson, Segregation and the SAT, 67 Ohio St. L. J. 

 
157 (2006); Mickelson, “Subverting Swann,” 215-52. 
 
123  Howard  E.  Manning,  “Letter  Re:  The  High  School  Problem  – 
Consequences,” Public School Forum of North Carolina, 3 March 2006 
at  http://www.ncforum.org/resources/collateral/030306-MANNING%20 
OPINION%20re%20High%20Schools%20with%20charts%203_3_06.pdf 
(accessed 29 September 2006). 
124  Christopher  B.  Swanson,  Who  Graduates?  Who  Doesn’t?  A 
 
Statistical  Portrait  of  Public  High  School  Graduation,  Class  of  2001 
(Washington, D.C.: The Urban Institute, 2004). 
 
ington, D.C.: The Urban Institute, 2005). 

125  Christopher  B.  Swanson,  Who  Graduates  in  the  South?  (Wash-

 

 

App. 39 

  An  examination  of  over  13,000  public  high  schools 
 
across  the  country  in  2004  showed  that  schools  with  a 
higher  concentration  of  blacks  and  Latinos  tend  to  have 
lower  “promoting  power,”  which  indicates  the  percentage 
of students who stay in school and are promoted each year 
from  grades  9  to  12.126  A  majority  of  high  schools  whose 
student bodies are at least 90% nonwhite have low promot-
ing  power,  meaning  that  less  than  60%  of  their  students 
graduate  in  four  years.127  Only  6%  of  majority  white  high 
schools  have  such  low  promoting  power.128  These  findings 
suggest that if there were two high schools with identical 
resources,  the  school  with  a  higher  percentage  of African 
American and/or Latino students is less likely to have on-
time  promotion,  a  likely  indicator  of  graduation.129  Stu-
dents  in  predominantly  minority  schools  are  also  less 

 

 

 
 
126  Robert Balfanz and Thomas C. West, “Racial Isolation and High 
School  Promoting  Power,”  in  Graduation  Gap  Policy  Brief  (Baltimore: 
Center  for  Social  Organization  of  Schools,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
2006).  The  study  found  that  racial  composition  was  a  significant 
predictor  after  controlling  for  school  resources  (student-teacher  ratio), 
free-lunch level, school size and urbanicity. 
127  Described  as  “dropout  factories”  in  Robert  Balfanz  and  Nettie 
 
Legters, “Locating the Dropout Crisis: Which High Schools Produce the 
Nation’s  Dropouts?”  in  Dropouts  in  America:  Confronting  the  Gradua-
tion  Rate  Crisis,  ed.  Gary  Orfield  (Cambridge, Mass.:  Harvard  Educa-
tion  Press,  2004):  85-106.  One-third  of  these  dropout  factories  have 
students who are 90% nonwhite even though 90-100% nonwhite schools 
account for only 8% of schools analyzed. 
 
Power.” 
129  Similarly, a study of high schools in metropolitan Boston found 
 
that only 45 percent of students in high-poverty, high-minority schools 
graduate on time, compared to more than three-quarters of their peers 
in  low-poverty,  low-minority  schools.  Lee,  Educational  Outcomes  in 
Metropolitan Boston. 

128  Balfanz and West, “Racial Isolation and High School Promoting 

 

 

App. 40 

likely  to  graduate  from  college,  even  after  accounting  for 
prior test scores and socioeconomic status.130 

 
  These  findings  have  significant  implications  for  the 
lives of minority students and the welfare of communities. 
Without  a  high  school  diploma,  a  student  is  unlikely  to 
attend college and will have limited employment options.131 
The graduation rate for all students in highly segregated 
districts in 2002-03 was 56%, significantly lower than the 
national rate.132 The economic health of cities, states, and 
the  nation  is  threatened  by  the  low  level  of  education 
received by black, Latino, and Native American students, 
especially when only about half of these students graduate 
four  years  after  entering.133  Because  of  the  growing  num-
ber  of  minority  students,  if  existing  educational  trends 
continue,  the  nation  risks  something  it  has  never  before 
seen: an intergenerational decline in its educational level, 
a threatening outcome in a knowledge-based economy.134  

 

 

 

 
 
130  Eric  M.  Camburn,  “College  Completion  among  Students  from 
High Schools Located in Large Metropolitan Areas,” American Journal 
of Education 98, no. 4 (August 1990): 551-69. 
 
131  Haya  Stier  and  Marta  Tienda,  The  Color  of  Opportunity: 
Pathways to Family, Welfare and Work (Chicago: Univ. of Chicago Press, 
2001); Alice  O’Conner,  Chris  Tilly,  and  Lawrence  D.  Bobo,  ed.,  Urban 
Inequality: Evidence from Four Cities (New York: Russell Sage, 2001). 
 
132  Editorial  Projects  in  Education,  Diplomas  Count:  An  Essential 
Guide  to  Graduation  Policy  and  Rates  (Bethesda,  Md.:  Editorial 
Projects in Education, 2006). 
 
tion Rate Crisis (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard Education Press, 2004). 
134  Recent  studies  indicate  that  the  U.S.  higher  education  system 
 
will not be producing graduates fast enough even to replace retirees, let 
alone to fill new jobs requiring college education. Anthony P. Carnevale, 
“Discounting  Education’s  Value,”  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education,  22 
September 2006, B6-B9. 

133  Gary Orfield, ed., Dropouts in America: Confronting the Gradua-

 

 

App. 41 

III.  The Need for Race-Conscious Policies to Create 

Desegregated Schools. 

 
  Research  indicates  that  race-conscious  student  as-
signment  policies  in  schools  may  be  necessary  to  obtain 
the  educational  and  societal  benefits  of  racial  integration 
and to avoid the harms associated with racial isolation and 
resegregation. Studies have found that race-neutral policies 
are not as effective in attaining racial desegregation. 

 
Race-Neutral Choice Policies  
  Research has shown that without the enforced regula-
 
tion of desegregation court orders or guidelines designed to 
attain racial desegregation, the implementation of uncon-
trolled school choice plans tends to foster racially homoge-
neous  schools135  and  lead  to  even  greater  segregation.136 
Experience  both  in  Southern  districts  immediately  after 
Brown and in a number of Northern districts that initiated 
“open  enrollment”  transfer  programs  showed  that  these 
programs  generally  did  not  desegregate  black  student 

 

 

 
135  Janelle  Scott,  ed.,  School  Choice  and  Diversity:  What  the 

 
Evidence Says (New York: Teachers College Press, 2005). 
 
136  See  also  Frankenberg  and  Lee,  Race  in  American  Public 
Schools; Martin Carnoy et al., The Charter School Dust-Up: Examining 
the  Evidence  on  Enrollment  and  Achievement  (New  York:  Economic 
Policy Institute & Teachers College Press, 2005). Research on interna-
tional  examples  of  school  choice  has  also  found  in  different  contexts, 
educational  choice  produces  stratification.  See  Edward  B.  Fiske  and 
Helen  Ladd,  When  Schools  Compete:  A  Cautionary  Tale  (Washington, 
D.C.: Brookings Institution, 2000). 

App. 42 

bodies or faculties and brought only a very small number 
of nonwhite students into white schools.137  

 
  Unmanaged  choice  plans  are  unsuccessful  at  achiev-
ing  or  maintaining  racial  diversity  for  a  number  of  rea-
sons.  The  concept  of  choice  is  based  on  the  theory  that 
everyone  will  be  equally  informed  and  effective  in  taking 
the  steps  needed  to  exercise  choice.  However,  not  all 
parents  have  access  to  the  same  kind  or  quality  of  infor-
mation  about  new  schools  or  existing  schools.  Because 
information  on  the  comparative  value  of  different  educa-
tional options is unequally distributed, unrestricted choice 
plans  tend  to  advantage  parents  with  high  educational 
attainment or more networks and contacts. These parents 
are more likely than other parents who do not possess this 
informational  advantage  to  know  about  the  range  of 
choices  that  are  available  and  to  exercise  their  options.138 
Other  socioeconomic  factors  can  limit  the  actual  choices 
families  have  when  selecting  schools,  such  as  lack  of 
transportation  for  students  to  attend  the  schools  of  their 
choice or working parents who are unable to leave work to 
visit  schools.139  Because  white  parents,  on  average,  have 

 

 
 
137  U.S.  Commission  on  Civil  Rights,  Southern  School  Desegrega-
tion,  1966-67  (Washington,  D.C.,  July  1967).  Ninety-eight  percent  of 
Southern  blacks  were  confined  to  all  black  schools  a  decade  after  the 
Brown  decision.  See  Gary  Orfield,  “The  Evolution  of  Administrative 
Policy: from the Law to the Guidelines,” ch. 2 in The Reconstruction of 
Southern  Education:  The  Schools  and  the  1964  Civil  Rights  Act  (New 
York: John Wiley, 1969). 
138  Bruce  Fuller,  Richard  F.  Elmore,  and  Gary  Orfield,  ed.,  Who 
 
Chooses,  Who Loses?:  Culture,  Institutions,  and  the  Unequal  Effects  of 
School Choice (New York: Teachers College Press, 1996). 
 
139  Amy  Stuart  Wells  et  al.,  “Charter  Schools  as  a  Postmodern 
Paradox:  Rethinking  Social  Stratification  in  an  Age  of  Deregulated 
School Choice,” Harvard Educational Review 69, no. 2 (Summer 1999): 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 43 

more education and connection to higher-status networks, 
the  difference  between  those  who  can  choose  and  those 
who cannot is likely to further stratify schools on the basis 
of  race. As  a  result  of these  dynamics,  many  schools  that 
use  unrestricted  choice  plans  are  segregated  by  race  and 
socioeconomic status.140 

 
  Assignment policies that manage choices and consider 
race  as  a  factor,  on  the  other  hand,  tend  to  result  in  and 
sustain  levels  of  racial  diversity141  that  create  a  learning 
environment  that  can  incorporate  the  benefits  of  racial 
integration to further the education of all students. Local 
educators,  community  leaders,  and  parents142  often  see 

 

 

 
172-204; Betsy Levin, “School Choice and Students with Disabilities,” in 
School  Choice  and  Social  Controversy,  ed.  Stephen  D.  Sugarman  and 
Frank  R.  Kemerer  (Washington,  D.C.:  Brookings  Institution  Press, 
1999): 266-99. 
140  Casey  D.  Cobb  and  Gene  V.  Glass,  “Ethnic  Segregation  in 
 
Arizona  Charter  Schools,”  Education  Policy  Analysis  Archives  7,  no.  1 
(Jan.  1999)  at  http://epaa.asu.edu/epaa/v7n1/  (accessed  29  September 
2006);  Erica  Frankenberg  and  Chungmei  Lee,  “Charter  Schools  and 
Race: A  Lost  Opportunity  for  Integrated  Education,”  Education  Policy 
Analysis  Archives  11,  no.  32  (Sept  2003)  at  http://epaa.asu.edu/epaa/ 
v11n32/ (accessed 29 September 2006). 
141  See  Salvatore  Saporito  and  Deenesh  Sohoni,  “Coloring  Outside 
 
the  Lines:  Racial  Segregation  in  Public  Schools  and  Their  Attendance 
Boundaries,”  Sociology  of  Education  79,  no.  2  (April  2006):  81-105 
(finding in a study of 22 major school districts that the implementation of 
free-market choice systems led to further race/ethnic stratification in all 
districts except those districts with some race-conscious plan in place). 
142  A  survey  of  a  random  sample  of  1204  parents  in  Louisville 
 
showed that 86% of parents in the system and 92% of African American 
parents  said  it  was  important  “that  schools  have  students  from 
different  races  and  backgrounds  in  the  same  school.”  Majorities  also 
agreed that diversity would produce a “higher quality of education” for 
their own children. Significantly, parents also supported specific district 
mechanisms to create integrated schools while still giving them choices 
for  their  children.  For  example,  over  half  of  white  parents  and  three 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 44 

these outcomes as a major benefit and such schools tend to 
be  well  accepted  in  communities.143  A  new  study  of  race-
conscious and race-neutral choice plans in San Diego, the 
nation’s  8th  largest  district,  found  that  the  district’s  two 
choice  programs  with  race-conscious  mechanisms  to 
encourage  integration,  including  providing  transportation 
to  attend  out-of-neighborhood  schools,  did  more  to  inte-
grate  schools  than  did  the  open-enrollment  choice  pro-
gram, which had no race-conscious aspect.144 

 
  Recent  economic  studies  also  suggest  that  denying 
parents  and  students  their  first-choice  school  may  not 
have  negative  academic  consequences  for  students.  A 
study of a pure choice student assignment plan, for exam-
ple, found that the ability of students to attend their first-
choice  school  is  not  associated  with  academic  gains, 
including  test  scores.  This  finding  holds  even  when  the 
first-choice  schools  have  higher  average  test  scores, 
suggesting  that  denying  some  students  their  first  choice 
will not harm their academic outcomes.145 

 

 
fourths of black parents thought the district should “have guidelines to 
achieve  racial  balance.”  Thomas  Wilkerson,  Student  Assignment 
Survey: Summary of Findings (Louisville, Ky.: Wilkerson & Associates, 
July 1996). 
143  Teacher Opinions on Racial and Ethnic Diversity: Clark County 
 
School  District,  Nevada,  (Cambridge,  Mass.:  The  Civil  Rights  Project, 
2002); Bagnashi and Scheer, “Brown v. Board of Education.” 
 
144  The  study  also  found  clear  evidence  of  academic  gains  only  in 
the  race-conscious  high  school  magnet  programs  and  suggested  a 
broader and more targeted magnet program. Julian R. Betts et al., Does 
School  Choice  Work?  Effects  on  Student  Integration  and  Achievement 
(San Francisco: Public Policy Inst. of California, August 2006). 
 
145  Justine Hastings, Thomas Kane, and Douglas Staiger, “Parental 
Preferences  and  School  Competition:  Evidence  from  a  Public  School 
Choice  Program,”  Working  paper,  National  Bureau  of  Economic 
Research, Inc., Cambridge, Mass., 2005; Julie B. Cullen, Brian A. Jacob, 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 45 

  A  widely  implemented  example  of  managed  choice 
 
plans  are  magnet  schools,  which  created  hundreds  of 
specialized  and  sometimes  very  popular  schools  offering 
programs and educational approaches that previously had 
not  existed  in  the  school  districts.146  Because  magnet 
schools  have  desegregation  as  their  mission,  policies 
designed to explicitly consider race, and mechanisms like 
family outreach and free school transportation, they have 
increased  the  number  of  interracial  schools  in  many 
districts147 since they were first incorporated in desegrega-
tion  plans  in  the  mid-1970s.  By  1991,  there  were  more 
than  2,400  magnet  schools  enrolling  about  1.2  million 
students  concentrated  in  large  urban  districts.  Many 
students had voluntarily transferred to these schools from 
outside  the  schools’  neighborhoods.  Further,  there  were 
more  than  120,000  students  on  waiting  lists.148  Though 
magnets had only a modest impact on overall segregation 
levels,  they  demonstrate  how  choice  can  be  compatible 
with desegregation.  

 
Socioeconomic Status as a Race-Neutral Alternative 
  A  few  school  districts  have  adopted  socioeconomic 
 
plans that are designed, at least in part, to achieve racial 

 

 
and Steven Levitt, “The Effect of School Choice on Student Outcomes: 
Evidence from Randomized Lotteries,” Working paper, National Bureau 
of Economic Research, Inc., Cambridge, Mass., 2003. 
 
146  Lauri Steel and Roger Levine, Educational Innovation in Multira-
cial Contexts: The Growth of Magnet Schools in American Education (Palo 
Alto, Calif.: American Institutes for Research, 1991): i-20. 
 
Sociology, ed. George Ritzer (Boston: Blackwell Publishers, in press). 
 
Education, i-20. 

147  Amy  G.  Langenkamp,  “Magnet  Schools,”  in  Encyclopedia  of 

148  Steel  and  Levine,  The  Growth  of  Magnet  Schools  in  American 

 

 

App. 46 

integration.149 Social scientists have studied the impact of 
these  plans  to  determine  whether  socioeconomic  integra-
tion  can  lead  to  racial  integration,  and  have  concluded 
that plans based on class are not likely to produce racially 
integrated schools. 

 
  One  of  the  main  difficulties  of  designing  a  successful 
racial integration plan that uses the socioeconomic status 
of students is that the only measure of class that schools 
normally  possess  is  whether  a  student  receives  a  free 
lunch.  This  measure,  however,  is  flawed.  Free  lunch 
eligibility is a dichotomous measure and is a weak classi-
fier  of  individuals  because  it  groups  those  who  are  from 
very  different  economic  classes  –  students  who  are  just 
above the poverty line and those who are highly affluent – 
in  the  same  category  and  treats  them  identically  under 
integration plans. Moreover, many eligible students do not 
apply for free lunch, particularly in high school, because of 
the  stigma  attached  to  the  program  or  because  they  are 
immigrant  students  from  undocumented  families.  Free 
lunch  status  is  also  a  weak  measure  of  socioeconomic 
status because it includes students who may be temporar-
ily  poor,  such  as  children  of  highly  educated  new  immi-
grants  or  graduate  students,  and  does  not  account  for 
wealth, which represents cumulative earnings.150 

 

 
 
149  Cambridge,  Massachusetts  is  also  often  mentioned  as  an 
example  of  using  socioeconomic  integration,  and  while  their  student 
assignment  plan  does  include  socioeconomic  status  as  one  factor,  it 
retains race as a factor in assignments where significant resegregation 
appears and is not a pure race-neutral plan.  
 
150  Wealth is distributed even more unequally among racial groups 
than is income. Black wealth is, on average, 10 cents for every dollar of 
white  wealth.  On  an  individual  basis,  this  wealth  gap  between  black 
and white families has grown to be more than $80,000. See Thomas M. 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 47 

  Moreover,  while  race  and  class  are  often  strongly 
 
correlated,  they  are  not  perfectly  correlated.  Class-based 
solutions  typically  do  not  consider  patterns  of  white 
resistance to living in minority neighborhoods, regardless 
of income level,151 and are therefore unable to address the 
residential segregation that often fuels school segregation. 
Regardless  of  how  class  is  measured,  research  demon-
strates  that  black  segregation  is  high  across  all  socioeco-
nomic levels.152 Thus, it appears that residential segregation 
is  driven  by  race,153  and  not  by  class  or  affordability,154  and 

 

 
Shapiro, The Hidden Cost of Being African-American (New York: Oxford 
Univ. Press, 2004). Hispanic wealth is slightly higher, on average, than 
black wealth but is also much less than white wealth. Rakesh Kochhar, 
The  Wealth  of  Hispanic  Households:  1996  to  2002  (Washington,  D.C.: 
Pew  Hispanic  Center,  October  2004).  These  data  thus  indicate  that  a 
measure of socioeconomic status relying solely on poverty status would 
reveal only a small part of a family’s actual financial status. Although 
the available measures of class are flawed, obtaining a more complete 
measure  would  require  intrusive  questions  about  a  family’s  financial 
situation. 
151  Camille  Zubrinsky  Charles,  “Can  We  Live  Together?  Racial 
 
Preferences and Neighborhood Outcomes,” in The Geometry of Opportunity: 
Race  and  Housing  Choice  in  Metropolitan  America,  ed.  Xavier  de  Souza 
Briggs (Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press, 2005): 45-80. 
 
152  Douglas  Massey  and  Nancy  Denton,  “Table  4.1,”  in  American 
Apartheid: Segregation and the Making of the Underclass (Cambridge, 
Mass.:  Harvard  Univ.  Press,  1993):  86;  Joe  T.  Darden  and  Sameh  H. 
Kamel,  “Black  Residential  Segregation  in  the  City  and  Suburbs  of 
Detroit: Does Socioeconomic Status Matter?” Journal of Urban Affairs 
22,  no.  1  (2000):  1-13;  John  Iceland,  Cicely  Sharpe,  and  Erika 
Steinmetz, “U.S. Census Bureau Class Differences in African American 
Residential  Patterns  in  U.S.  Metropolitan  Areas:1990-2000,”  Social 
Science Research 34, no. 1 (March 2005): 252-66. 
 
also likely to produce segregated schools. 
154  John  Logan,  Separate  and  Unequal:  The  Neighborhood  Gap 
 
for  Blacks  and  Hispanics  in  Metropolitan  America  (Albany,  N.Y.: 
Lewis  Mumford  Center,  Univ.  of  Albany,  October  2002).  The  average 

153  Because  of  this  fact,  neighborhood-based  assignment  plans  are 

 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 48 

that racial  residential  segregation  is  greater  than  income 
residential  segregation.155  This  means  that  in  segregated 
minority  areas  a  policy  might  end  up  bringing  together 
blacks  or  Latinos  to  create  socioeconomic  but  not  racial 
diversity  in  schools.  Further,  plans  that  use  poverty  as  a 
criterion tend to exclude remedies for the minority middle 
class  even  though  these  individuals  are  often  isolated, 
behind in achievement, and more exposed to negative peer 
groups and weak schools than middle-class whites.156  

 
  A  statistical  analysis  investigating  the  racially  inte-
grative possibility of income-based integration plans in the 
nation’s  largest  school districts  found,  in  fact,  that  in  the 
great majority of districts such a plan would leave schools 
racially  segregated.157  Analysis  of  data  from  89  of  the 
nation’s  100  largest  school  districts  found  that  relying  on 
income  as  defined  by  student  free  lunch  eligibility  and 
assigning students within the district to approximate the 
percentage  of  a  district’s  poor  students  in  each  school 
would  have  very  little,  if  any,  effect  on  racial  integration. 
Only  by  collecting  and  using  more  specific  data  on  income 
and  including  a  much  broader  area  than  a  single  school 

 
 

 
neighborhood  lived  in  by  blacks  in  2000  had  a  much  lower  median 
income,  even  among  affluent  blacks,  than  whites  of  similar  income 
bracket, according to an analysis of the 2000 Census.  
 
155  Massey and Denton, American Apartheid. 
 
156  Mary  Pattillo-McCoy,  Black  Picket  Fences:  Privilege  and  Peril 
Among the Black Middle Class (Chicago: Univ. of Chicago Press, 1999). 
 
157  Sean F. Reardon, John T. Yun, and Michal Kurlaender, “Implica-
tions  of  Income-Based  School  Assignment  Policies  for  Racial  School 
Segregation,”  Educational  Evaluation  and  Policy  Analysis  28,  no.  1 
(Spring 2006): 49-75. 

 

App. 49 

district  would  there  likely  be  any  racial  diversity.158  Thus, 
while such plans might create economic diversity or other 
forms  of  diversity  that  may  benefit  students,  they  do  not 
provide the specific benefits of racial integration.159  

 
  The  sole  example  where  socioeconomic  diversity  has 
created  racial  integration  has  been  where  dramatic  eco-
nomic  differences  exist  between  whites  and  nonwhites. 
Such  a  situation  exists  in  Raleigh,  North  Carolina  where 
extreme  economic  differences  in  a  biracial  community 
made  income  a  better  than  normal  proxy  for  race.  The 
Wake  County  district  adopted  a  policy  in  2000  providing 
for  integration  on  the  basis  of  poverty  and  standardized 
test scores, and has had some significant success since its 
implementation.  Wake  County  has  a  set  of  special  condi-
tions  rarely  found  in  major  school  districts:  it  is  an  over-
whelmingly  white  district  with  only  about  a  fourth  of  its 
students in poverty160 with black students being about ten 
times as likely to be poor as white students. The district’s 
prior  history  of  racially  desegregated  schools  and  a  com-
mitment  to  preserve  diversity  along  with  strong  district 
leadership  combined  to  achieve  significant  success  in  its 
early years,161 although there is growing political opposition 
 
 
158  See  Duncan  Chaplin,  “Estimating  the  Impact  of  Economic 
Integration  of  Schools  on  Racial  Integration”  in  Divided  We  Fail: 
Coming Together through Public School Choice, ed. Century Foundation 
Task  Force  on  the  Common  School  Report  (New  York:  The  Century 
Foundation Press, 2002): 87-113. 
 
School Assignment Policies for Racial School Segregation,” 49-75. 
160  Wake  County  Public  School  System,  “2005-2006  Student  Enroll-
 
ment  –  District  Schools,”  <http://www.wcpss.net/demographics/quickfacts/ 
05/sys-05.html> (accessed October 4, 2006). 
 
161  Susan Leigh Flinspach and Karen E. Banks, “Moving Beyond Race: 
Socioeconomic Diversity as a Race-Neutral Approach to Desegregation  in 

159  Reardon,  Yun,  and  Kurlaender,  “Implications  of  Income-Based 

 

 

 

 

(Continued on following page) 

App. 50 

and data that suggest a number of the schools are exceed-
ing  both  the  caps  set  for  the  percentage  of  students  that 
are poor and that have low test scores.162  

 
Experience  of  School  Districts  that  Have  Adopted  Race-
Neutral Policies 
  Recent  research  shows  that  districts  formerly  under 
 
desegregation orders that have eliminated the use of race 
in  student  assignments  have  experienced  resegregation 
and  its  harmful  effects  in  the  few  years  since  they  were 
released  from  court  orders  and  were  declared  “unitary.”163 
This  has  been  clearly  demonstrated  in  the  aftermath  of 
dissolving plans in Charlotte and Denver, the two districts 
at  issue  in  the  Court’s  decisions  in  Swann  and  Keyes  v. 
School  District  No.  1.164  In  addition,  the  effort  in  San 
Francisco  to  achieve  racially  integrated  schools  without 
the  use  of  race-conscious  policies  has  shown  the  limits  of 
such policies in achieving racial integration.  

 
  These  results  are  not  surprising  given  that  research 
had already documented similar patterns of resegregation 
and  achievement  declines  for  black  students  in  Norfolk, 
Virginia, the first district to dissolve its desegregation plan 

 

 
the  Wake  County  Schools,”  in  School  Resegregation:  Must  the  South 
Turn  Back?,  ed.  John  C.  Boger  and  Gary  Orfield  (Chapel  Hill,  N.C.: 
Univ. of North Carolina Press, 2005): 261-80. 
162  Gerald  Grant,  Hope  and  Despair  in  the  American  City  (Cam-
 
bridge,  Mass.:  Harvard  Univ.  Press,  forthcoming);  Todd  Silberman, 
“Wake  Schools  Find  Diversity  Hard  to  Maintain,”  Raleigh  News  and 
Observer, 11 June 2006. 
 
 

163  See Orfield and Lee, Racial Transformation. 
164  413 U.S. 189 (1973). 

 
 

App. 51 

in  1986,165  and  in  Oklahoma  City,  where  ten  elementary 
schools  became  at  least  90%  black  after  the  district  was 
declared  unitary.  Further,  a  report  found  that  Oklahoma 
City’s  claims  of  increased  parental  involvement  and 
achievement  gains  that  would  result  from  an  end  of 
desegregation were questionable.166 

 
  Charlotte 
 
  From  1971  to  2002,  the  Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
 
Schools  (CMS)  grappled  with  the  mandate  of  the  Swann 
decision  to  desegregate  their  schools.  During  the  early 
1980s, only 5% of black students in CMS attended racially 
imbalanced schools, though this percentage rose substan-
tially as CMS limited busing in favor of voluntary magnet 
plans.167  In  August  2002,  after  the  district  was  declared 
unitary,  CMS  implemented  a  race-neutral  neighborhood-
based,  limited  choice  student  assignment  plan.168  Shortly 
thereafter, a majority of CMS schools began to experience 

 

 

 
165  Vivian  Ikpa,  “The  Effects  of  Changes  in  School  Characteristics 
 
Resulting  from  the  Elimination  of  the  Policy  of  Mandated  Busing  for 
Integration  upon  the  Academic  Achievement  of  African-American 
Students,” Educational Research Quarterly 17, no. 1 (1994): 19-29. 
 
166  Jennifer  Jellison,  Resegregation  and  Equity  in  Oklahoma  City 
(Cambridge,  Mass:  The  Harvard  Project  on  School  Desegregation, 
1996). 
 
167  Roslyn A. Mickelson, The Academic Consequences of Desegrega-
tion and Segregation: Evidence from the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools, 
81 N.C. L.Rev. 1513, 1543 (2003). 
168  Roslyn Mickelson, “Are Choice, Diversity, Equity, and Excellence 
 
Possible?  Early  Evidence  from  Post-Swann  Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
Schools, 2002-2004,” in School Choice and Diversity: What the Evidence 
Says, ed. Janelle Scott (New York: Teachers College Press, 2005): 129-
44. 

 

 

App. 52 

racial  resegregation.169  After  two  years,  22.6%  fewer 
elementary schools, 7.4% fewer middle schools, and 20.6% 
fewer  high  schools  were  racially  integrated  compared  to 
the last year that the district was under the Court order in 
Swann.170  The  student  assignment  plan  permitted  in-
creased socioeconomic and racial stratification of students, 
which  amplified  differences  in  math  and  reading  test 
scores  of  3rd  through  8th  graders  from  different  racial, 
ethnic,  and  socioeconomic  backgrounds.171  The  experience 
in  Charlotte  corroborates  other  research  demonstrating 
that  race-neutral  neighborhood/choice  plans 
lead  to 
segregation,  which  can  have  tangible  consequences, 
particularly regarding student achievement.172 

 
  Denver 
 
 
  In  1995,  the  Denver  School  District  ended  its  use  of 
race  in  making  student  assignment  decisions.  Almost 
immediately,  about  half  of  the  district’s  schools  experi-
enced  moderate  or  substantial  changes  in  the  racial  and 

 

 

 
 
169  In  the  year  following  the  end  of  the  desegregation  plan,  the 
percentage  of  black  students  in  racially  isolated  black  schools  jumped 
eleven  percentage  points.  Mickelson,  The  Academic  Consequences  of 
Desegregation and Segregation. 
 
170  Roslyn A. Mickelson and Stephanie Southworth, “When Opting-
Out  is  Not  a  Choice;  Implications  for  NCLB  from  Charlotte,  North 
Carolina,” Equity & Excellence in Education 38, no. 3 (2005): 1-15. 
 
171  R. Kenneth Godwin et al., “Sinking Swann: Public School Choice 
and the Resegregation of Charlotte Schools,” Review of Policy Research 
23, no. 5 (2006): 983-97. 
 
172  Fuller, Elmore, and Orfield, ed., Who Chooses, Who Loses?; The 
Socioeconomic Composition of the Public Schools: A Crucial Considera-
tion  in  Student  Assignment  Policy  (Chapel  Hill,  N.C.:  Univ.  of  North 
Carolina Center for Civil Rights, January 2005). 

 

 

App. 53 

ethnic  composition  of  the  schools.173  Despite  a  decreased 
overall  percentage  of  white  students  in  Denver’s  public 
schools,  the  number  of  racially  isolated  white  schools 
actually  increased.  By  2003,  84%  of  Latinos  and  74%  of 
blacks  were  in  schools  that  had  less  than  30%  white 
students.174  Both  black  and  Latino  achievement,  on  aver-
age, declined in schools that became increasingly minority 
concentrated  in  comparison  to  racially  stable  schools  or 
schools  with  rising  white  enrollment.  This  pattern  was 
more pronounced for Latino students.175  

 
  San Francisco  
 
 
  In 1999, San Francisco school authorities entered into 
a  consent  decree  that  governed  the  district’s  student 
assignment policies. The decree eliminated the use of race 
and adopted an index that considered non-racial factors in 
student  assignment  decisions  such  as  socioeconomic 
status,  academic  achievement,  English-language  learner 
status,  mother’s  educational  background,  academic  per-
formance  at  prior  school,  home  language,  and  geographic 
areas. Analyses  of  district  data  suggest  that  the  district’s 
race-neutral  student  assignment  policies  were  unsuccess-
ful  for  maintaining  racial  integration,  particularly  at  the 
elementary  school  level.  The  state  monitor  found  that 
under  the  new  index  racial  resegregation  accelerated,176 

 
 

173  Horn and Kurlaender, The End of Keyes. 
174  Chungmei  Lee,  Denver  Public  Schools:  Resegregation,  Latino 

 
 
Style (Cambridge, Mass.: Civil Rights Project, January 2006). 
 
175  Horn and Kurlaender, The End of Keyes. 
176  Stuart  Biegel,  “Annual  Report  No.  22  of  the  Consent  Decree 
 
Monitor,  2004-2005”  submitted  in  San  Francisco  NAACP  v.  San 
Francisco Unified Sch. Dist., No. C-78 1445 (N.D. Cal. Aug. 1, 2005). 

 
 

 

App. 54 

and the schools that were considered to be “highly diverse” 
under  the  index  were  actually  among  the  least  diverse 
along  racial  lines.177  The  reports  also  found  a  connection 
between  resegregation  and  a  concurrent  increase  in  the 
number of schools scoring at the lowest level on the state’s 
Academic Performance Index.178 
 

Conclusion 

 
  The  research  summarized  here  fully  supports  the 
educational judgments by the local education authorities in 
the Jefferson County and Seattle school districts to promote 
racial  integration  and  prevent  racial  isolation  through 
choice-based policies that consider race as a factor. Ideally, 
as social scientists and the Court have noted, we will reach 
a point where race no longer matters in the life opportuni-
ties of American children, but until that time comes, race-
conscious policies such as the ones in Seattle and Jefferson 
County are critically needed. 

 

 
 
177  Stuart  Biegel,  “Supplemental  Report  by  the  Consent  Decree 
Monitoring Team Regarding The Achievement Gap and Related Issues 
in  the  San  Francisco  Unified  School  District,”  submitted  in  San 
Francisco  NAACP  v.  San  Francisco  Unified  Sch.  Dist.,  No.  C-78  1445 
(N.D.  Cal.  Mar.  12,  2004).  See  also  William  T.  Trent,  “The  Effect  of 
School Racial  Composition on Student Outcomes in the San Francisco 
Unified  School  District”  (Dec.  2005)  (unpublished  report,  on  file  with 
San Francisco Unified School District). 
178  Stuart  Biegel,  “The  Report  of  the  Consent  Decree  Monitoring 
 
Team, Report No. 20, 2002-2003,” submitted in San Francisco NAACP 
v. San Francisco Unified Sch. Dist., No. C-78 1445 (N.D. Cal. July 31, 
2003). See also Trent, “The Effect of School Racial Composition” (finding 
an  association  between  minority  concentration  and  the  test  scores  of 
African Americans and Latinos, even after controlling for other factors 
that might influence student achievement). 

 

 

App. 55 

Richard Alba, State University of New York, Albany 
Marcus Allen, Wheaton College 
Leticia Alvarez, University of Wyoming 
James Anderson, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Patrick Anderson, University of California, San Diego 
Sally Andrade, University of Texas, El Paso 
Anthony Antonio, Stanford University 
John Antrobus, City University of New York, 
  City College of New York 
Rene Antrop-Gonzalez, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Jean Anyon, City University of New York, Graduate Center 
William Apgar, Harvard University 
Elizabeth Aranda, University of Miami 
M. Beatriz Arias, Arizona State University 
Theodore Arrington, University of North Carolina, Charlotte 
Mikaila Arthur, City University of New York, Queens College 
Jennifer Astuto, Long Island University 
William Ayers, University of Illinois, Chicago 
Reynaldo Baca, University of Southern California 
Ellen Bacon, North Carolina Central University 
Robert Balfanz, Johns Hopkins University 
Arnetha Ball, Stanford University 
Deborah Ballam, Ohio State University 
Barbara Bank, University of Missouri 
James Banks, University of Washington 
Andrew Barlow, University of California, Berkeley 
Bernice McNair Barnett, University of Illinois, 
  Urbana-Champaign 
Thomas Gregory Barrett, University of Arkansas, Little Rock 
Edwina Barvosa, University of California, Santa Barbara 
Vilna Bashi, Rutgers University 
Shana Bass, California State University, San Marces 
Patricia Bauch, University of Alabama 
Janet Bauer, Trinity College 
Herman Beavers, University of Pennsylvania 
Samuel Bedinger, University of Chicago 
Courtney Bell, University of Connecticut 
Lee Anne Bell, Barnard College, Columbia University 

App. 56 

Alfredo Benavides, Texas Tech University 
Pamela Bennett, Johns Hopkins University 
Estela Bensimon, University of Southern California 
David Berliner, Arizona State University 
Mary Frances Berry, University of Pennsylvania 
Bruce Biddle, University of Missouri 
Stuart Biegel, University of California, Los Angeles 
William Bielby, University of Pennsylvania 
Rebecca Bigler, University of Texas, Austin 
Sari Knopp Biklen, Syracuse University 
Martha Biondi, Northwestern University 
Judith Blau, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Kathleen Blee, University of Pittsburgh 
David Bloome, Ohio State University 
Gilda Maria Bloom-Leiva, San Francisco State University 
Lawrence Blum, University of Massachusetts, Boston 
Susan Bon, George Mason University 
Christopher Bonastia, City University of New York, 
  Lehman College 
Eileen Boris, University of California, Santa Barbara 
Kathryn Borman, University of South Florida 
Darlene Boroviak, Wheaton College 
Phillip Bowman, University of Michigan 
Kevin Boyle, Ohio State University 
Jomills Braddock II, University of Miami 
Marilynn Brewer, Ohio State University 
Karin Brewster, Florida State University 
Frank Brown, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Kathleen Brown, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Peter Brown, Emory University 
Shelly Brown, University of North Carolina, Greensboro 
Khalilah Brown-Dean, Yale University 
Dexter Edward Bryan, California State University, 
  Dominquez Hills 
Patricia Ellen Burch, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Cynthia Burwell, Norfolk State University 
Nola Butler Byrd, San Diego State University 
Caitlin Cahill, University of Utah 

App. 57 

Roberto Calderón, University of North Texas 
Brian Carolan, City University of New York, 
  College of Staten Island 
Prudence Carter, Harvard University 
Angelina Castagno, Northern Arizona University 
Lisa Catanzarite, Washington State University 
Dolita Cathcart, Wheaton College 
Sophia Catsambis, City University of New York, 
  Queens College 
Stefanie Chambers, Trinity College 
Shefali Chandra, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Mido Chang, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
  State University 
Mitchell Chang, University of California, Los Angeles 
Jorge Chapa, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Camille Charles, University of Pennsylvania 
Melinda Chateauvert, University of Maryland 
Simon Cheng, University of Connecticut 
Susan Christopher, Mills College 
Lisa Citron, Cascadia Community College 
Brian Clardy, Murray State University 
Caroline Clark, Ohio State University 
Hugh Cline, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Charles Clotfelter, Duke University 
Rodney Coates, Miami University 
Gilberto Conchas, University of California, Irvine 
Frances Contreras, University of Washington 
Catherine Cooper, University of California, Santa Cruz 
Robert Crain, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Matthew Crenson, Johns Hopkins University 
Larry Crisler, Millikin University 
Dean Cristol, Ohio State University, Lima 
Robert Croninger, University of Maryland 
David Crystal, Georgetown University 
Kimberly DaCosta, Harvard University 
Suzanne Damarin, Ohio State University 
Linda Darling-Hammond, Stanford University 
Jay Davis, Dartmouth College 

App. 58 

Stephanie Daza, Eastern Michigan University 
Xavier de Souza Briggs, Massachusetts Institute of 
  Technology 
Elizabeth DeBray-Pelot, University of Georgia 
Regina Deil-Amen, Pennsylvania State University 
Stefanie DeLuca, Johns Hopkins University 
Karen DeMoss, University of New Mexico 
C. Holly Denning, University of Wisconsin, Whitewater 
Nancy Deutsch, University of Virginia 
Joel Devine, Tulane University 
John Diamond, Harvard University 
Niki Dickerson, Rutgers University 
Ashley Doane, Jr., University of Hartford 
Kenneth Dodge, Duke University 
Ruben Donato, University of Colorado, Boulder 
Sherman Dorn, University of South Florida 
Kevin Dougherty, Teachers College, Columbia University 
John Dovidio, University of Connecticut 
Joel Dworin, University of Texas, Austin 
Anthony Gary Dworkin, University of Houston 
Susan Eaton, Harvard University 
Suzanne Eckes, Indiana University 
Korie Edwards, Ohio State University 
Tamela McNulty Eitle, Montana State University 
Richard Elmore, Harvard University 
David Embrick, Loyola University, Chicago 
Michael Emerson, Rice University 
Patricia Enciso, Ohio State University 
Joyce Epstein, Johns Hopkins University 
Cynthia Esqueda, University of Nebraska, Lincoln 
Nancy Ettlinger, Ohio State University 
Angelo Falcón, National Institute for Latino Policy 
Christian Faltis, Arizona State University 
John Farley, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville 
Joe Feagin, Texas A&M University 
Walter Feinberg, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Pixie Fennessey, Millikin University 
Ronald Ferguson, Harvard University 

App. 59 

Beth Ferri, Syracuse University 
Michelle Fine, City University of New York, Graduate Center 
Jeremy Finn, State University of New York, Buffalo 
Patricia First, University of Arizona 
Gustavo Fischman, Arizona State University 
Susan Fiske, Princeton University 
Richard Flacks, University of California, Santa Barbara 
Susan Leigh Flinspach, University of California, Santa Cruz 
Stella Flores, Harvard University 
Karen Flynn, University of Akron 
Nancy Foner, City University of New York, 
  Hunter College and Graduate Center 
Erica Frankenberg, Harvard University 
John Hope Franklin, University of Chicago and 
  Duke University 
Maria Franquiz, University of Texas, San Antonio 
Stephen Friedman, University of Wisconsin, Whitewater 
Michael Fultz, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Elizabeth Fussell, Tulane University 
Tomás Galguera, Mills College 
Adam Gamoran, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Patricia Gándara, University of California, Davis 
Monica Garcia, California State University, San Bernardino 
Lisa García Bedolla, University of California, Irvine 
Cynthia García Coll, Brown University 
Reyna García Ramos, Pepperdine University 
Marybeth Gasman, University of Pennsylvania 
Billie Gastic, Temple University 
Claudine Gay, Harvard University 
Saul Geiser, University of California, Berkeley 
Cynthia Gerstl-Pepin, University of Vermont 
Mark Ginsburg, University of Pittsburgh 
Gene Glass, Arizona State University 
William Glenn, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
  State University 
Elizabeth Glennie, Duke University 
Francisca Godinez, California State University, Sacramento 

App. 60 

Robert Kenneth Godwin, University of North Carolina, 
  Charlotte 
Phillip Goff, Pennsylvania State University 
Ellen Goldring, Vanderbilt University 
Mark Gooden, University of Cincinnati 
Carl Grant, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Gerald Grant, Syracuse University 
Andrew Grant-Thomas, Ohio State University 
Cecilia Anne Green, University of Pittsburgh 
Mareyjoyce Green, Cleveland State University 
Frank Grossman, Swarthmore College 
Miguel Guajardo, Texas State University, San Marcos 
Roxane Gudeman, Macalester College 
Patricia Gurin, University of Michigan 
Juan Gutierrez, California State University, San Bernardino 
Kris Gutierrez, University of California, Los Angeles 
Marta Gutman, City University of New York, 
  City College of New York 
Linda Hagedorn, University of Florida 
Kenji Hakuta, Stanford University 
Maureen Hallinan, University of Notre Dame 
Floyd Hammack, New York University 
Ange-Marie Hancock, Yale University 
Charles Hancock, Ohio State University 
Walter Haney, Boston College 
Jane Hannaway, The Urban Institute 
Roxanna Harlow, McDaniel College 
Deborah Harmon, Eastern Michigan University 
Douglas Harris, Florida State University 
Duchess Harris, Macalester College 
Phyllis Braudy Harris, John Carroll University 
Melissa Harris-Lacewell, Princeton University 
Anthony Kwame Harrison, Virginia Polytechnic Institute 
  and State University 
Susan Hartmann, Ohio State University 
Angela Hattery, Wake Forest University 
Willis Hawley, University of Maryland 
Clarissa Hayward, Ohio State University 

App. 61 

Walter Heinecke, University of Virginia 
Jeffery Henig, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Pilar Herrera, University of Texas, El Paso 
Thomas Hertz, American University 
Jay Heubert, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Nik Heynen, University of Georgia 
Garett Heysel, Lycoming College 
Pensri Ho, University of Hawaii, Manoa 
Jennifer Hochschild, Harvard University 
Warren Hodge, University of North Florida 
Jennifer Jellison Holme, University of Texas, Austin 
Catherine Horn, University of Houston 
Ernest House, University of Colorado, Boulder 
Lea Hubbard, University of San Diego 
Evelyn Hu-DeHart, Brown University 
Darnell Hunt, University of California, Los Angeles 
David Hursh, University of Rochester 
Daniel Immergluck, Georgia Institute of Technology 
Nongnuch Inpanbutr, Ohio State University 
Benita Jackson, Smith College 
Tara Jackson, University of Pennsylvania 
Hasan Kwame Jeffries, Ohio State University 
J. Craig Jenkins, Ohio State University 
Laura Dudley Jenkins, University of Cincinnati 
Deneese Jones, Longwood University 
Michael Jones-Correa, Cornell University 
Carl Kaestle, Brown University 
Joseph Kahne, Mills College 
Cheryl Kaiser, University of Washington 
Jerome Karabel, University of California, Berkeley 
David Karen, Bryn Mawr College 
Anna Karpathakis, Kingsborough Community College, 
  City University of New York 
Sidney Kasfir, Emory University 
Philip Kasinitz, City University of New York, 
  Graduate Center 
Robert Kaufman, Ohio State University 
Verna Keith, Florida State University 

App. 62 

Frank Kemerer, University of San Diego 
Melanie Killen, University of Maryland 
Peter Killoran, University of Wisconsin, Whitewater 
Keith Kilty, Ohio State University 
James Kim, University of California, Irvine 
Kiljoong Kim, DePaul University 
Robert Kimball, University of Houston, Clear Lake 
M. Bruce King, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Richard Kitchen, University of New Mexico 
Steven Klees, University of Maryland 
Janette Klingner, University of Colorado, Boulder 
Philip Klinkner, Hamilton College 
Lisa Maya Knauer, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth 
Julie Reed Kochanek, Southern Oregon University 
Satish Kolluri, Pace University 
Susan Komives, University of Maryland 
Mindy Kornhaber, Pennsylvania State University 
Jerome Krase, City University of New York, 
  Brooklyn College 
Lauren Krivo, Ohio State University 
Jeffrey Kromrey, University of South Florida 
Michal Kurlaender, University of California, Davis 
Ruthanne Kurth-Schai, Macalester College 
Karyn Lacy, University of Michigan 
Scott Lacy, Emory University 
Armando Laguardia, Washington State University, 
  Vancouver 
Michèle Lamont, Harvard University 
Lynette Land, University of Utah 
Chungmei Lee, Harvard University 
Jaekyung Lee, State University of New York, Buffalo 
Taeku Lee, University of California, Berkeley 
Valerie Lee, University of Michigan 
Anthony Lemelle, City University of New York, 
  John Jay College 
Rhonda Levine, Colgate University 
George Levinger, University of Massachusetts, Amherst 
Amanda Lewis, University of Illinois, Chicago 

App. 63 

Deborah Little, Adelphi University 
Robert Livingston, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
James Loewen, Catholic University of America 
John Logan, Brown University 
Bridget Terry Long, Harvard University 
Mark Long, University of Washington 
Susan Orpett Long, John Carroll University 
Susan Longerbeam, Northern Arizona University 
Gerardo Lopez, Indiana University 
Vivian Louie, Harvard University 
Joseph Lowndes, University of Oregon 
Amy Lutz, Syracuse University 
William MacDonald, Ohio State University, Newark 
Christopher MacDonald-Dennis, Bryn Mawr College 
Reynaldo Macías, University of California, Los Angeles 
George Madaus, Boston College 
Joseph Manboah-Rockson, Texas Southern University 
Warrenetta Mann, University of Virginia 
Becky Mansfield, Ohio State University 
Karen Mapp, Harvard University 
Eric Margolis, Arizona State University 
Christina Marin, New York University 
Patricia Marin, Harvard University 
Catherine Marshall, University of North Carolina, 
  Chapel Hill 
Isaac Martin, University of California, San Diego 
Camille Martina, University of Rochester 
Roberto Martinez, New York University 
Valerie Martinez-Ebers, Texas Southern University 
Joseph Masling, State University of New York, Buffalo 
Douglas Massey, Princeton University 
Janice McCabe, Florida State University 
Martha McCarthy, Indiana University 
Katherine McClelland, Franklin and Marshall College 
Kathryn McDermott, University of Massachusetts, Amherst 
Elaine McDuff, Truman State University 
Darryl McMiller, University of Hartford 
Linda McSpadden McNeil, Rice University 

App. 64 

James McPartland, Johns Hopkins University 
Jack Meacham, State University of New York, Buffalo 
Julie Mead, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mary Haywood Metz, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Roslyn Mickelson, University of North Carolina, Charlotte 
Karen Miksch, University of Minnesota 
Jeffrey Milem, University of Arizona 
Will Miller, University of Arkansas 
Luis Miron, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Paula Mohan, University of Wisconsin, Whitewater 
John Mollenkopf, City University of New York, 
  Graduate Center 
Karen Monkman, DePaul University 
Anthony Monteiro, Temple University 
David Montejano, University of California, Berkeley 
Michael Montoya, University of California, Irvine 
Krystyn Moon, University of Mary Washington 
Massimo Morelli, Ohio State University 
Jose Moreno, California State University, Long Beach 
Sandra Morgen, Pennsylvania State University 
Lorenzo Morris, Howard University 
Hazel Morrow-Jones, Ohio State University 
Michele Moses, University of Colorado, Boulder 
Lynne Moulton, State University of New York, Brockport 
Joshua Muldavin, Sarah Lawrence College 
Carlos Muñoz, Jr., University of California, Berkeley 
Richard Murnane, Harvard University 
Jerome Murphy, Harvard University 
Jerry Murtagh, Fort Valley State University 
Laura Nelson, California State University, East Bay 
Sarah Nelson, Texas State University, San Marcos 
Thomas Nelson, University of the Pacific 
Jan Nespor, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
  State University 
Melissa Nobles, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
George Noblit, Univesity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Amaury Nora, University of Houston 
Julie Novkov, State University of New York, Albany 

App. 65 

Mariela Nunez-Janes, University of North Texas 
Philip Nyden, Loyola University, Chicago 
Jeannie Oakes, University of California, Los Angeles 
Deirdre Oakley, Northern Illinois University 
Alberto Ochoa, San Diego State University 
Heather Oesterreich, New Mexico State University 
Michael Olivas, University of Houston 
Michael Olneck, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Joel Olson, Northern Arizona University 
Gary Orfield, Harvard University 
Michael Leo Owens, Emory University 
Scott Page, University of Michigan 
Gregory Palardy, University of Georgia 
Tara Parker, University of Massachusetts, Boston 
Mary Pattillo, Northwestern University 
Charles Payne, Duke University 
Mindy Peden, John Carroll University 
Laura Perna, University of Pennsylvania 
Heather Perry, University of North Carolina, Charlotte 
Georgia Persons, Georgia Institute of Technology 
Robert Peterkin, Harvard University 
William Peterman, Chicago State University 
Ruth Peterson, Ohio State University 
Thomas Pettigrew, University of California, Santa Cruz 
Evelyn Phillips, Central Connecticut State University 
Meredith Phillips, University of California, Los Angeles 
Fred Pincus, University of Maryland, Baltimore County 
Mica Pollock, Harvard University 
Cynthia Preston, Ohio State University 
John Puckett, University of Pennsylvania 
Patricia Quijada, University of Texas, San Antonio 
Rosalind Latiner Raby, California State University, 
  Northridge 
Antonia Randolph, University of Delaware 
Charles Rankin, Kansas State University 
Norma Rantisi, Concordia University 
Sean Fitzpatrick Reardon, Stanford University 
Douglas Reed, Georgetown University 

App. 66 

Fernando Reimers, Harvard University 
Laura Rendon, Iowa State University 
Lauren Resnick, University of Pittsburgh 
Sandra Resnick, Brandeis University 
Julie Reuben, Harvard University 
Rachel Reynolds, Drexel University 
Virginia Richardson, Ohio State University 
Carolyn Ridenour, University of Dayton 
Ellen Riojas, University of Texas, San Antonio 
Kerry Ann Rockquemore, University of Illinois, Chicago 
Dalia Rodriguez, Syracuse University 
Thomas Rogers, University of North Carolina, Charlotte 
Barbara Rogoff, University of California, Santa Cruz 
Stephanie Victoria Rohdieck, Ohio State University 
Mary Romero, Arizona State University 
Joel Rosch, Duke University 
Vincent Roscigno, Ohio State University 
Wendy Roth, University of British Columbia 
Shahnaz Rouse, Sarah Lawrence College 
Deirdre Royster, College of William and Mary 
Martin Ruck, City University of New York, Graduate Center 
Vicki Ruiz, University of California, Irvine 
Russell Rumberger, University of California, Santa Barbara 
John Rury, University of Kansas 
John Ryan, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and 
  State University 
Alan Sadovnik, Rutgers University 
Victor Saenz, University of California, Los Angeles 
Maria del Carmen Salazar, University of Denver 
Cinthia Salinas, University of Texas, Austin 
Suzanne Salzinger, Columbia University 
Leslie Salzinger, Boston College 
Patricia Sánchez, University of Texas, San Antonio 
Salvatore Saporito, College of William and Mary 
Martin Scanlan, Marquette University 
Beth Scarloss, Stanford University 
Barbara Schecter, Sarah Lawrence College 
Ronald Schmidt, California State University, Long Beach 

App. 67 

Barbara Schneider, Michigan State University 
La Tefy Schoen, North Carolina State University 
Janet Ward Schofield, University of Pittsburgh 
Katherine Schultz, University of Pennsylvania 
Janelle Scott, New York University 
Nathan Scovronick, Princeton University 
William Sedlacek, University of Maryland 
Marcia Segal, Indiana University Southeast 
Robert Self, Brown University 
Guy Senese, Northern Arizona University 
Thomas Shapiro, Brandeis University 
Todd Shaw, University of South Carolina, Columbia 
Naoko Shibusawa, Brown University 
Toni Sims, University of Louisiana, Lafayette 
David Sjoquist, Georgia State University 
Diana Slaughter-Defoe, University of Pennsylvania 
Robert Slavin, Johns Hopkins University 
Kathleen Slevin, College of William and Mary 
Kris Sloan, St. Edwards University 
Daryl Smith, Claremont Graduate University 
Eliot Smith, Indiana University 
Heather Smith, Sonoma State University 
Jason Smith, University of Alabama, Huntsville 
Kersha Smith, College of New Rochelle 
Robert Smith, University of North Carolina, Charlotte 
Stephen Samuel Smith, Winthrop University 
Claire Smrekar, Vanderbilt University 
Mark Smylie, University of Illinois, Chicago 
Deenesh Sohoni, College of William and Mary 
Diane Soles, University of Wisconsin, Whitewater 
Daniel Solorzano, University of California, Los Angeles 
Joan Spade, State University of New York, Brockport 
Margaret Beale Spencer, University of Pennsylvania 
Sandra Spickard Prettyman, University of Akron 
Stephanie Urso Spina, State University of New York, 
  Cortland 
Gregory Squires, George Washington University 
Edward St. John, University of Michigan 

App. 68 

Stephen Steinberg, City University of New York, 
  Queens College and Graduate Center 
Walter Stephan, University of Hawaii 
James Stewart, Pennsylvania State University 
George Straface, University of Denver 
Guy Stuart, Harvard University 
Carola Suárez-Orozco, New York University 
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco, New York University 
Gail Sunderman, Harvard University 
Janet Kay Swim, Pennsylvania State University 
Beverly Daniel Tatum, Spelman College 
Shelly Tenenbaum, Clark University 
Jeanne Theoharis, City University of New York, 
  Brooklyn College 
Henry Thomas, University of North Florida 
Scott Thomas, University of Georgia 
Marta Tienda, Princeton University 
Kathryn Harker Tillman, Florida State University 
Terrence Tivnan, Harvard University 
Donald Tomaskovic-Devey, University of Massachusetts, 
  Amherst 
Saadia Toor, City University of New York, 
  College of Staten Island 
María Elena Torre, The New School 
Myriam Torres, New Mexico State University 
Rosemary Traoré, University of North Carolina, Charlotte 
William Trent, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
Stanley Trent, University of Virginia 
Linda Tropp, University of Massachusetts, Amherst 
Larry Troy, Millikin University 
Mia Tuan, University of Oregon 
Frank Tuitt, University of Denver 
Caroline Turner, Arizona State University 
Margery Austin Turner, The Urban Institute 
Cynthia Tyson, Ohio State University 
Karolyn Tyson, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Concepcion Valadez, University of California, Los Angeles 
John Valadez, University of Wisconsin, Whitewater 

App. 69 

Richard Valencia, University of Texas, Austin 
Angela Valenzuela, University of Texas, Austin 
Leonard A. Valverde, Arizona State University 
Gloria Vaquera, John Carroll University 
Patrick Velasquez, University of California, San Diego 
Thomas Vicino, University of Texas, Arlington 
Octavio Villalpando, University of Utah 
Kamala Visweswaran, University of Texas, Austin 
David Vogler, Wheaton College 
David Wakefield, California State University, Northridge 
Beverly Ward, University of South Florida 
Dorian Warren, Columbia University 
Mark Warren, Harvard University 
Maika Watanabe, San Francisco State University 
Mary Waters, Harvard University 
Heather Wathington, University of Virginia 
Jill Weigt, California State University, San Marcos 
Gordon Weil, Wheaton College 
Melissa Weiner, Quinnipiac University 
Lois Weis, State University of New York, Buffalo 
Herbert Weisberg, Ohio State University 
Richard Weissbourd, Harvard University 
Amy Stuart Wells, Teachers College, Columbia University 
Kevin Welner, University of Colorado, Boulder 
Carolyne White, Rutgers University, Newark 
Joy Wiggins, University of Texas, Arlington 
Craig Wilder, Dartmouth College 
Ron Wilhelm, University of North Texas 
Johnny Williams, Trinity College 
Joy Ann Williamson, Stanford University 
William Julius Wilson, Harvard University 
Howard Winant, University of California, Santa Barbara 
Michele Wittig, California State University, Northridge 
Judith Wittner, Loyola University, Chicago 
Priscilla Wohlstetter, University of Southern California 
Rachael Woldoff, West Virginia University 
Lisa Wolf-Wendel, University of Kansas 
Janelle Wong, University of Southern California 

App. 70 

George Wood, The Forum on Education and Democracy 
Komozi Woodard, Sarah Lawrence College 
William Wraga, University of Georgia 
Julia Wrigley, City University of New York, Graduate Center 
Erica Yamamura, Carleton College 
Kevin Yelvington, University of South Florida 
Joseph Yi, Gonzaga University 
Tara Yosso, University of California, Santa Barbara 
John Yun, University of California, Santa Barbara 
Luana Zellner, Texas A&M University 
Sabrina Zirkel, Mills College 
Elayne Zorn, University of Central Florida 
Richard Zweigenhaft, Guilford College 

 



