Base URL: valorcollegiate.org
Parent URL: https://valorcollegiate.org/diverse-design-schools-show-integration-looks-like-matters-kids/
File URL: HTTPS://FILES.ERIC.ED.GOV/FULLTEXT/EJ995900.PDF
From All Walks of Life

New Hope for School Integration

By Richard D. Kahlenberg

Sixteen years ago—back when Bill Clinton and Bob Dole 

were battling for the presidency and Michelle Rhee was 
still a graduate student—I began researching a book sug-
gesting that we should find creative ways to educate more 
students in economically integrated school environments. It was 
a very old and profoundly American idea and, at the same time, 
novel and mostly unexplored in practice.

On the one hand, the idea of economically integrated schools 
runs deep in American history. In 1837, Horace Mann, who 
famously argued that public education should be “the great equal-

Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, is the 
author or editor of several books, including Rewarding Strivers: Helping 
Low-Income Students Succeed in College; Tough Liberal: Albert Shanker 
and the Battles Over Schools, Unions, Race, and Democracy; and All 
Together Now: Creating Middle-Class Schools through Public School 
Choice. This article is adapted with permission from the introduction to 
The Future of School Integration: Socioeconomic Diversity as an Educa-
tion Reform Strategy, ed. Richard D. Kahlenberg (New York: Century Foun-
dation, 2012).

izer,” wrote that in order to serve that role, public schools had to 
be “common schools,” by which he meant institutions in which 
“the children of all classes, rich and poor, should partake as 
equally as possible in the privileges” of the enterprise.1 The idea 
of socioeconomic integration received a big boost more than 100 
years later with the publication of the 1966 Coleman Report. Cole-
man’s analysis—examining 600,000 students in 4,000 schools—
found that the socioeconomic status of your classmates mattered 
a great deal to your academic performance. The report concluded 
that “the social composition of the student body is more highly 
related to achievement, independent of the student’s own social 
background, than is any school factor.”2

On the other hand, in 1996, when I began researching the topic 
of socioeconomic integration, almost no American school dis-
tricts explicitly sought an economically integrated student body. 
Racial integration was a widely recognized goal, but racial deseg-
regation was seen mostly as a legal remedy for the crime of de jure 
segregation and as a desirable social goal for society at large.

Racial integration is a very important aim that I fully support, 
but if one’s goal is boosting academic achievement, the research 
from Coleman (and subsequent studies) found that what really 

2    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013

 

K
A
L
O
W
Z
 
L
U
A
P
Y
B
 
S
N
O
T
A
R
T
S
U
L
L
I

I

Racial integration is a  
very important aim, but  
if one’s goal is boosting  
academic achievement,  
what really matters is  
economic integration.

matters is economic integration. Indeed, UCLA professor Gary 
Orfield, a strong proponent of racial desegregation, notes that 
“educational research suggests that the basic damage inflicted by 
segregated education comes not from racial concentration but 
the concentration of children from poor families.”3 In Louisville, 
Kentucky, for example, a racial integration plan produced one 
school that was nicely integrated by race but was 99 percent low 
income—and struggled.4

The research is clear. Low-income students in middle-class 
schools (in which less than 50 percent of students are eligible for 
free or reduced-price lunch) are surrounded by: (1) peers who, 
on average, are more academically engaged and less likely to act 
out than those in high-poverty schools (in which at least 50 per-
cent of students are eligible for free or reduced-price lunch*); (2) 
a community of parents who are able to be more actively involved 
in school affairs and know how to hold school officials account-
able; and (3) stronger teachers who have higher expectations for 
students.5

In 1996, I could only identify one 
school district in the entire coun-
try—La Crosse, Wisconsin—that 
consciously  sought  to  promote 
socioeconomic integration of its 
schools. And when I visited the 
town, I found that La Crosse’s pol-
icy, that all elementary schools 
should aim to have between 15 and 
45 percent of the student body eli-
gible for free lunch, had been highly 
controversial. In 1999, after I pub-
lished a few articles about socioeco-
nomic integration in newspapers 
and magazines, I began getting calls 
from reporters in a second, much larger district, Wake County 
(Raleigh), North Carolina, which was discussing a plan to limit 
the proportion of students eligible for free or reduced-price lunch 
to 40 percent at all schools. Slowly, policy was beginning to catch 
up to where the research had long been pointing: to the need to 
break up concentrations of school poverty.

In 2001, I published All Together Now: Creating Middle-Class 
Schools through Public School Choice, which laid out the research 
basis for socioeconomic integration and provided profiles of La 
Crosse and Wake County. In the years since then, I’ve written 
numerous essays and reports on the topic, including a 2007 profile 
of the growing number of school districts pursuing socioeconomic 
integration.6 Earlier this year, the Century Foundation, where I 
work, published a volume of essays that I edited: The Future of 
School Integration: Socioeconomic Diversity as an Education 
Reform Strategy. It highlights the research of a new generation of 
scholars on the topic and identifies more than 80 school districts, 
educating 4 million students, that pursue socioeconomic integra-
tion. During the past 16 years, I’ve written on other topics—
including teachers’ unions, private school vouchers, No Child Left 

*In this article, “high-poverty schools” are defined as those in which at least 50 
percent of students are eligible for free or reduced-price lunch. Some studies set 
different thresholds. For example, in The Condition of Education 2012, the US 
Department of Education defines high-poverty schools as those in which more than 75 
percent of students are eligible for free or reduced-price lunch.

Behind, inequality in higher education (affirmative action and 
legacy preferences), and labor organizing—but socioeconomic 
school integration has been an important and consistent thread 
in my work.

Over the years, I’ve been dismissed as politically naive, called 
racist for pointing to evidence that low-income students perform 
better in middle-class schools, and, worst of all, ignored by pro-
gressive Democratic administrations, which by my lights, should 
get fully behind a policy showing enormous promise for low-
income students. In this essay, I sketch the considerable obstacles 
I’ve faced in promoting socioeconomic school integration—and 
explain what keeps me going.

Strong Resistance
In the past 16 years, I have encountered enormous resistance 
from conservatives, and even some liberals, to the idea of provid-
ing poor kids a chance to attend middle-class schools. Some 
conservatives and tea party activ-
ists resurrect the specter of “forced 
busing”  from  the  1970s,  even 
though today’s integration relies on 
public  school  choice,  magnet 
schools,  and  incentives,  rather 
than compulsion. Others, such as 
Abigail and Stephan Thernstrom, 
suggest that working one’s way up 
to buy a house in a good neighbor-
hood with good schools for your 
children is the American way, even 
though equal educational opportu-
nity for children, whether or not 
their parents can afford to live in a 
good neighborhood, is fundamen-

tal to the American Creed.7

Some liberals worry that the focus on socioeconomic integra-
tion will somehow shortchange the commitment of Brown v. 
Board of Education to integration by race. They don’t openly 
acknowledge that race and class are closely connected, and that 
socioeconomic integration offers significant legal advantages due 
to a 2007 US Supreme Court ruling curtailing the ability of districts 
to employ race.8 Some advocates of the poor worry that policies 
seeking to break up concentrations of poverty send the insulting 
signal that “poor kids can’t learn,” even though precisely the oppo-
site is true: it is because poor kids can learn that it’s important to 
provide them with the right educational environment. At one 
meeting, my discussion of the evidence on the negative impact of 
concentrated poverty was labeled “borderline racist.”

Finally, most policymakers—on both the left and the right—shy 
away from socioeconomic school integration because they think 
it’s politically safer to try to make “separate but equal” institutions 
for rich and poor work, even though no one knows how to make 
high-poverty schools work at scale, and there are many established 
ways to make socioeconomic integration politically palatable.

As a result of the opposition from both conservative and liberal 
quarters, socioeconomic school integration is not part of the 
national policy discussion in Washington, DC. Instead, 95 percent 
of the education discussion takes economic segregation as an 
immutable fact of life and focuses on trying to “fix” high-poverty 

AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013    3

Finland—often held out  
as an education success  
story—had the lowest  

degree of socioeconomic  
segregation of 57 countries 

participating in PISA.

schools (usually in ways that high-quality research does not sup-
port, but the ineffectiveness of most popular reform ideas is 
beyond the scope of this article).

So why, in the face of such bipartisan resistance, do I stick with 
it? And why do I think there is even some hope for progress on 
socioeconomic integration in the future? I am motivated by two 
central factors. The first is the serious body of research evidence—
which has grown dramatically in the past decade—demonstrating 
that socioeconomic integration is one of the most important tools 
available for improving the academic achievement, and life 
chances, of students.

The second impetus for me is the courage, commitment, and 
intelligence of local superintendents, school board members, busi-
nesspeople, civil rights leaders, principals, parents, teachers, and 
students in dozens of local communities who are showing that it is 
possible to create politically viable 
and successful economic integra-
tion programs. And when I get espe-
cially discouraged, I am heartened 
by the personal stories I hear from 
individuals who suggest that having 
the chance to attend an economi-
cally integrated school made all the 
difference in their lives.

The Growing  
Research Evidence
When All Together Now was pub-
lished in 2001, there was a very 
strong research base for socioeco-
nomic integration; I cited dozens of 
studies—from the 1966 Coleman 
Report through a 1997 congressio-
nally authorized longitudinal study of 40,000 students—finding 
that over and above individual students’ socioeconomic status 
(SES), as the poverty level of the school goes up, the average 
achievement level goes down. In the last decade, the research has 
become even more convincing. A 2010 review of 59 studies on the 
relationship between a school’s SES and outcomes in math found 
“consistent and unambiguous evidence” that higher school pov-
erty concentrations are linked with less learning for students 
“irrespective of their age, race, or family’s SES.”9 To cite some 
examples:

•	 In 2005, an analysis of a large data set found that a school’s SES 
had as much impact on the achievement growth of high school 
students in math, science, reading, and history as a student’s 
individual economic status.10

•	 Analyzing data from the Programme for International Student 
Assessment (PISA), researchers recently concluded that the 
academic successes of nations like Finland and Canada appear 
to be related in part to their greater degrees of socioeconomic 
school integration.11 Finland—often held out as a remarkable 
education success story—had the very lowest degree of socio-
economic segregation of 57 countries participating in PISA.12
•	 What may be the largest study analyzing school integration and 
achievement used math exams required under the No Child 
Left Behind Act and examined data from 22,000 schools enroll-

4    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013

ing 18 million students. Published in 2006, the study found that 
minority students have greater gains in racially integrated 
schools, and that “a substantial portion of the ‘racial composi-
tion’ effect is really due to poverty and peer achievement.”13

•	 In 2010, a reanalysis of Coleman’s data using a more sophisti-
cated statistical technique found that the social class of the 
school matters even more to student achievement than does 
the SES of the family.14

•	 In 2012, researchers found a strong statewide correlation 
between socioeconomic school segregation and the size of the 
achievement gap between low-income and higher-income 
students. Examining achievement gaps on the National Assess-
ment of Educational Progress for math and reading in 2007 and 
2009,15 they found that black and Latino students had smaller 
achievement gaps with white students when they were less 
likely to be stuck in high-poverty 
school environments. Policymak-
ers often point to different levels of 
performance of minority students 
in different states and suggest that 
teacher practices and school lead-
ership may be possible explana-
tions.  In  fact,  variations  in 
socioeconomic isolation, a factor 
not often mentioned, may play a 
significant role.

Rigorous Research  
yields Strong Results
Some of the strongest evidence to 
date was published in 2010: a care-
fully controlled study examined 
students and families who were 
randomly assigned to public housing units in Montgomery 
County, Maryland, a diverse and high-achieving district outside 
Washington, DC. It found very large positive effects as a result of 
living in lower-poverty neighborhoods and attending lower-
poverty elementary schools.16

This research took advantage of a rare opportunity to compare 
two education approaches. On the one hand, the Montgomery 
County school district has invested substantial extra resources 
(about $2,000 per pupil) in its lowest-income schools (dubbed the 
“red zone”) to employ a number of innovative educational 
approaches. On the other hand, the county also has a long-stand-
ing inclusionary housing policy that allows low-income students 
to live in middle- and upper-middle-class communities and 
attend fairly affluent schools (dubbed the “green zone”).

Thus, Montgomery County offers an interesting experiment: 
Do low-income students perform better in higher-poverty schools 
that receive greater resources, or in more-affluent schools with 
fewer resources? Which matters more for low-income students: 
extended learning time, smaller class size, and intensive teacher 
development programs—all made available in Montgomery 
County’s higher-poverty schools—or the types of advantages usu-
ally associated with schools in which the majority of students 
come from affluent families, such as positive peer role models, 
active parental communities, and strong teachers?

The results were unmistakable: low-income students attending 

more-affluent elementary schools (and living in more-affluent 
neighborhoods) significantly outperformed low-income elemen-
tary students who attend higher-poverty schools with state-of-
the-art educational interventions. By the end of elementary 
school, students living in public housing who attended the most-
affluent schools cut their initial, sizable math achievement gap 
with nonpoor students in the district by half. For reading, the gap 
was cut by one-third.

What is particularly remarkable about the comparative success 
of students in public housing attending Montgomery County’s 
more-affluent schools is they weren’t besting students stuck in 
lousy schools but rather students in schools that saw improve-
ment. Indeed, the school system’s interventions in its less-affluent 
red zone schools have been generally 
effective and widely lauded. The 
investment in red zone schools 
helped decrease the countywide 
achievement gap with whites in 
third-grade  reading  from  35 
percentage points in 2003 to 19 
points in 2008 for African Ameri-
cans, and from 43 points to 17 
points for Hispanics.17

The success of this red zone/
green zone intervention deserves 
acclaim. But it was Montgomery 
County’s long-standing “inclu-
sionary zoning” housing policy 
that  has  had  a  far  more  pro-
nounced positive educational 
effect. Under a policy adopted in 
the early 1970s, developers of large 
subdivisions are required to set aside between 12 percent and 15 
percent of units for low-income and working-class families. The 
housing authority purchases up to one-third of the inclusionary 
zoning homes to operate as public housing apartments that are 
scattered throughout the county. Families eligible for public hous-
ing enter a lottery and are randomly assigned to public housing 
apartments.

The study has national significance not only because it found 
a very large longitudinal effect from economic integration, but 
also because it helps answer a question about whether the supe-
rior performance of low-income students in more-affluent 
schools nationwide is simply an artifact of self-selection. The 
study controls for the fact that more motivated low-income fami-
lies may scrimp and save to get their children into good schools 
by comparing students whose families were assigned by lottery 
into red zone and green zone schools. (And, unlike research based 
on charter school lotteries, the attrition rate in Montgomery 
County public housing is extremely low.)*

It found the achievement benefits extended to students in 

*On the surface, this study would seem to contradict results from a federal housing 
income integration program known as Moving to Opportunity (MTO), which saw few 
academic gains for children. But MTO involved students who moved to schools that 
were mostly still high poverty, with an average free or reduced-price lunch population 
of 67.5 percent (compared with a control group attending schools with 73.9 percent 
of students receiving subsidized lunches). The Montgomery County experiment 
allowed low-income students to attend some very low-poverty schools, similar to the 
wildly successful Gautreaux program in Chicago.18

public housing attending schools with up to 30 percent low-
income student populations. Does this suggest that 30 percent is 
a “tipping point,” after which low-income students generally will 
cease to benefit from economically integrated schooling? Not 
likely. The vast majority of the schools in the sample had low-
income populations of between 0 percent and 60 percent. Because 
other research has found that the negative effects of concentrated 
poverty are compounded in very high-poverty schools, it may well 
be that low-income students in, say, 30 to 50 percent low-income 
schools perform better than students in 60 to 100 percent low-
income schools, but (partly because of the housing policy) Mont-
gomery County does not have enough truly high-poverty schools 
to test the hypothesis.

One interesting question raised by 
the study is to what extent students 
benefited from living in more-advan-
taged neighborhoods, compared 
with attending more-advantaged 
schools. It finds that roughly two-
thirds of the benefit comes from the 
school,  and  one-third  from  the 
neighborhood. This suggests there 
may be considerable value in pro-
grams that integrate at the school level 
alone, though greater benefits clearly 
accrue from integration at both the 
neighborhood and school levels.

Effect on Middle-Class Students
The Montgomery County study did not 
look specifically at the effect on the 
achievement of middle-class students in 
integrated schools, but a large number of studies have. This 
research consistently finds that integration is not a zero-sum 
game: low-income students can benefit from economically inte-
grated schools, and middle-class achievement does not decline 
so long as a strong core of middle-class children is present.19 The 
research on racial integration found similar results: test scores of 
black students increased and white students’ scores did not 
decline.20

Research suggests21 low-income students can benefit in eco-
nomically mixed schools, and middle-class students are not hurt, 
for two central reasons. First, the numerical majority sets the tone 
in a school: the negative effects of concentrated poverty tend to 
kick in only where a clear majority of students are low income. 
Second, middle-class children are less affected by school influ-
ences (for good or ill) than low-income children. This “differential 
sensitivity” to school environment, one of the central findings of 
the 1966 Coleman Report, has been dubbed “Coleman’s Law.” The 
reason, Coleman explained, is straightforward: aspirations and 
achievement are more firmly rooted for those with strong family 
backgrounds; those with weaker family backgrounds, who spend 
less time under adult supervision, are more open to the influence 
of peers—a finding consistently reached by researchers.

Research on Costs and Benefits
Opponents of integration at the school level often raise ques-
tions about the costs of such programs. Because our residential 

AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013    5

areas are segregated, school integration (as opposed to housing 
integration) involves expenses associated with bus transporta-
tion. Critics of integration often ask, shouldn’t money spent on 
bus transportation be more fruitfully employed on classroom 
education itself? It is a nice political slogan, but as the Montgom-
ery County research demonstrates, integration can produce far 
better achievement gains than pouring extra funds into high-
poverty schools. And, the total public and private return on 
investment in socioeconomic integration appears to greatly 
exceed the costs.

When compared with other countries, school spending in the 
United States does not appear cost-effective, yet little attention has 
been paid to the question of whether our relatively high rates of 
economic school segregation play a role in this problem. Recently, 
one researcher completed what I believe is the only rigorous cost-
benefit analysis of economic 
school integration.22 

Because most economic 
segregation occurs between 
districts rather than within 
them, the study estimates the 
costs and benefits of a model in 
which two-way, interdistrict, 
public school choice programs 
are enacted. And because of 
the political obstacles to inte-
gration under old-style com-
pulsory  busing  plans,  it 
examines  the  costs  of  two 
types of incentives for middle-
class families to participate 
voluntarily in integration: the 
creation of magnet schools (which 
adopt  special  themes  or  pedagogical 
approaches) to attract middle-class students to disadvantaged 
areas by choice, and financial incentives to entice more-affluent 
schools to accept low-income transfer students voluntarily.

Rather than examining the effects of complete socioeconomic 
integration (which is probably unachievable), the study looks at 
the effect of reducing socioeconomic segregation by one-half 
nationally—a level of integration enjoyed in many individual 
communities already. In order to cut economic segregation 
in half, roughly one-fourth of low-income students would 
need to transfer to more-affluent schools while roughly one-
fourth of more-affluent students would need to transfer to 
newly created magnet schools located in more-disadvantaged 
neighborhoods.

The study estimates the costs of creating magnet programs with 
special themes and pedagogical approaches (including transporta-
tion costs, special teacher training, and additional equipment) at 
roughly 10 percent greater than the costs of regular public school 
education. Likewise, it estimates the cost of creating financial 
incentives to “magnetize” low-income students in order to make 
transfers attractive to middle-class schools at a 10 percent premium 
overall. (This funding premium is far more generous than several 
existing metropolitan interdistrict integration programs in places 
such as Boston and Hartford, Connecticut.) Averaged out over all 
pupils, the per-pupil net present value of total costs over seven years 

of integrated schooling is estimated to be $6,340.

In measuring the benefits, the study examines the effects on 
high school graduation rates (as opposed, say, to academic 
achievement)  because  there  is  a  broad  consensus  among 
researchers about the economic benefits of graduating. The net 
lifetime public benefit of having a student graduate high school 
is estimated at $209,200 (in constant dollars), coming in the form 
of increased tax revenue due to greater earnings, as well as 
decreased health care spending, criminal justice system costs, 
and spending on welfare.

Averaged out over all students, the public benefit per student 
is more than $20,000, and the combined public and private ben-
efits amount to about $33,000 per student, far exceeding the cost 
of $6,340 per student. Put differently, the public return on invest-
ment in socioeconomic integration exceeds costs by a factor of 
3.3 and the total return (public and 
private) exceeds costs by a factor 
of  5.2.  These  returns  exceed 
almost all other investments in 
education, including private 
school vouchers, reduced class 
size, and improvements in teacher 
quality.  The  only  educational 
intervention  known  to  have  a 
greater return on investment is very 
high-quality  early  childhood 
education.

While these returns are quite 
good, they probably undervalue the 
full benefits of socioeconomic inte-
gration for a number of reasons. The 
study uses a conservative estimate of 
the impact of socioeconomic integration on 
high school graduation rates; individual districts 
such as St. Louis and Hartford have seen larger rises in graduation 
than the 10-percentage-point increase it relies upon. It employs 
conservative estimates of the economic benefits of high school 
graduation. It estimates only the benefits that magnet schools bring 
because of socioeconomic integration, excluding potential ancil-
lary benefits from providing a closer fit between student interests 
and curriculum. It does not count the civic benefits to our democ-
racy of having more highly educated citizens, nor the benefits to 
the children of high school graduates in the form of improved life 
chances. And it does not count the benefits to the workplace of 
having employees who know how to get along with workers of dif-
ferent socioeconomic and racial backgrounds.

In sum, rather than representing a diversion of funds to “bus-
ing” or transportation, spending that reduces socioeconomic 
school segregation appears to be among the wisest possible 
investments in all of education. 

Districts’ Experiences
In addition to the growing research, the other thing I’ve found 
heartening over the years is the growth in socioeconomic integra-
tion at the local level. While socioeconomic school integration 
has made few inroads on the federal level, one of the greater 
advantages of our decentralized system of schooling is that indi-
vidual states and districts can experiment with research-based 

6    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013

ideas, whether or not they are in fashion with Washington movers 
and shakers.

The Growth of Local Socioeconomic Integration Plans
In 1999, I gave a talk on socioeconomic school segregation, citing 
the wide body of research on its effects, and Washington Post 
reporter David Broder asked me where socioeconomic integration 
was being pursued. At that time, I could only point to La Crosse, 
a district with fewer than 8,000 students. Today, however, there 
are 80 districts using socioeconomic status as a factor in student 
assignment, educating some 4 million students. The districts are 
large (Chicago) and small (Burlington, Vermont); northeastern 
(Amherst, Massachusetts), southern (Jefferson County, Ken-
tucky), western (San Diego), and midwestern (Omaha, Nebraska). 
Districts measure socioeconomic status by looking at a student’s 
eligibility for free or reduced-price 
lunch, or by examining census data, 
including such factors as parental 
education, single-parent household 
status, and income.

The only educational  
intervention known to  
have a greater return  
on investment than  

socioeconomic integration  
is very high-quality early 

childhood education.

Four forces appear to be driving 
the socioeconomic integration move-
ment. First, as a matter of law, inte-
grating  by  socioeconomic  status 
offers substantial advantages over 
integrating  by  race. 23  After  the 
Supreme Court struck down racial 
integration plans in Seattle and Lou-
isville, many districts seeking to pre-
serve  racial  diversity  turned  to 
socioeconomic  plans  to  achieve 
diversity without using race per se, 
given the overlap between race and 
class in our society.

Second, districts, under increasing 

pressure to raise the achievement of low-income and minority stu-
dents, are beginning to heed the growing evidence suggesting that 
one of the most effective ways to do so is to give low-income and 
working-class students a chance to attend predominantly middle-
class schools. Although the media shower tremendous attention on 
high-poverty public schools and charter schools that have positive 
results, district leaders know that it is extremely difficult to make high-
poverty schools work on a systemwide, long-term basis.

Third, in an era of tight budgets, some school districts appear 
to be attracted to socioeconomic integration as a more cost-
effective means of raising student achievement than pouring 
additional dollars into high-poverty schools. In North Carolina, 
for example, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools has sought to raise 
achievement through an innovative pre-K program and extra 
expenditures in high-poverty schools; by contrast, Wake County 
has sought to raise achievement through socioeconomic integra-
tion. Both had measures of success, but according to a recent 
study,  Wake  County’s  integration  approach  was  more 
cost-effective.24

Fourth, the problem of concentrated poverty is growing, and 
the districts grappling with the issue are no longer just those in 
urban areas. According to the US Department of Education, 50 
percent of elementary school students now attend schools in 

which the majority of students are low income; between 2000 and 
2010, the proportion of majority low-income schools grew by 
almost 60 percent (from about 29 percent to about 45 percent, 
with the numbers being estimates because 7 to 15 percent of 
schools did not provide data).25 A 2010 report, The Suburbaniza-
tion of Poverty, found that in the nation’s largest metropolitan 
areas, more poor people live in large suburbs than in their primary 
cities, meaning poor pockets are now more prevalent in the sub-
urbs than in the past.26

Socioeconomic integration is being applied very broadly—in 
suburban areas that once had little poverty and even in urban 
areas that are overwhelmingly poor. In 2008, I received a call from 
educators in Chicago who were interested in constructing a socio-
economic plan. How does one do so in a district that is 85 percent 
low income? The answer: try to integrate a subset of magnet and 
selective enrollment schools where 
a critical mass of middle-class stu-
dents are interested in attending. I 
worked with the district for more 
than a year to develop a plan that 
divided residential census tracts into 
four socioeconomic tiers and sought 
to ensure that desirable schools had 
economic diversity. The plan was 
adopted in November 2009 and is 
still in existence. When I told a col-
league about my work with Chicago, 
the third-largest school district in 
the country, he responded, “We’re 
not in La Crosse anymore, Toto.”

The Politics of  
Socioeconomic Integration
Despite the growth of socioeco-
nomic school integration plans at 
the local level, the consensus in Washington, DC, is that integra-
tion is politically toxic. Andrew Rotherham, writing in Time maga-
zine in October 2010, for example, acknowledged the educational 
achievement benefits of socioeconomic school integration but 
questioned the political feasibility.27 The column nicely captures 
the paradox of integration: there is a consensus on the part of 
educational researchers that allowing low-income students to 
attend middle-class schools raises academic achievement and 
also an unfortunate Washington political consensus that there is 
not much we can do to encourage the practice. But might that 
enduring political belief be outdated?

Rotherham wrote: “Parents who are paying the high property 
taxes that often accompany high-performing public schools are 
zealously protective of access to that amenity.”

Of course, this argument violates the education reform move-
ment’s mantra: “it’s about the kids, not the adults.” Moreover, 
we’ve learned a great deal about how to integrate schools since 
compulsory busing in Boston circa 1976. Programs now rely not 
on mandates but on incentives to encourage voluntary integra-
tion: special magnet programs to lure middle-class students into 
schools in low-income areas, and financial incentives for schools 
in suburban districts to accept low-income transfer students. In 

(Continued on page 10)

AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013    7

many families now believe—as 
do virtually all leading colleges 
and universities—that racial, 
ethnic, and income diversity  

enriches the classroom.

(Continued from page 7)

Cambridge, Massachusetts, for example, all schools have been 
designated magnet schools, each with something distinctive to 
offer. Parents rank their preferences among schools, and the dis-
trict honors choices in a way that ensures all schools are within 
plus or minus 10 percentage points of the system’s average eligibil-
ity for free or reduced-price lunch.

The most sophisticated plans poll parents ahead of time, asking 
them what sort of themes or pedagogical approaches would attract 
them to attend a school farther away. In Hartford, for example, I 
visited a wonderful Montessori school, located in a tough neighbor-
hood with boarded-up houses nearby, that has a long waiting list 
of white, middle-class suburban families because the school at the 
end of the bus ride is attractive to 
them.

In addition, the “neighbor-
hood school” does not have the 
same  resonance  it  had  three 
decades ago. Although Ameri-
cans are divided on private school 
vouchers, they overwhelmingly 
support giving greater choice and 
options to students within the 
public school system.28 The share 
of families choosing a non-neigh-
borhood public school increased 
by 45 percent between 1993 and 
2007.29  Choice  almost  always 
requires transportation, but the 
old ideal of the child who walks or 
bikes to school is pretty much a thing of the past anyway, as only 
13 percent do so today, compared with nearly half in 1969.30

Finally, a growing share of Americans now recognize that 
diversity is a good thing for all students. Many families now 
believe—as do virtually all leading colleges and universities—that 
racial, ethnic, and income diversity enriches the classroom dis-
cussion and that students cannot learn how to live in a multicul-
tural society in a segregated white school.

Nevertheless, the politics of integration can be tough.
I’ve traveled to Wake County on numerous occasions over the 
last decade. It’s a flash point for the socioeconomic integration 
movement, demonstrating both the political challenges and how 
they can be overcome.31 The Wake County district, which encom-
passes the city of Raleigh and the surrounding suburban areas, 
has received a great deal of media attention in recent years for the 
political controversy surrounding its socioeconomic integration 
plan. The 18th-largest school district nationally, Wake is the larg-
est district in North Carolina, with more than 140,000 students. 
The 800-square-mile district was created in 1976 by the merger of 
the Raleigh and suburban Wake school districts. The district’s 
student population is 49 percent white, 25 percent African Ameri-
can, 15 percent Latino, and 6 percent Asian, with 33 percent of 
students eligible for free or reduced-price lunch.32

In the early 1980s, Wake County adopted a voluntary racial inte-
gration plan with the goal that all schools should be between 15 and 
45 percent black. In order to achieve integration largely through 
choice, almost all of the Raleigh schools were turned into magnets. 
In 2000, given legal concerns about the use of race, and a sense 

10    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013

among school researchers that poverty concentrations were of great 
educational concern, Wake County shifted to a socioeconomic 
diversity plan, with a goal that no school should have a student 
population that is more than 40 percent low income.

For many years, academic achievement rose, the program drew 
wide support, and pro-integration candidates continued to be 
elected to the school board. But over time, Wake County became, 
in a sense, the victim of its own success. In part because the schools 
were highly regarded, Wake County’s business climate thrived, new 
families moved to the area, and large numbers of students were 
added each year. In order to accommodate skyrocketing growth, 
increasing numbers of students were reassigned to fill new schools, 
generating anger among parents. Moreover, increasing numbers 
of families relocated from other 
areas of the country, and the new-
comers did not fully understand 
the county’s history of integration 
and its importance as an educa-
tional strategy.

At the same time, the booming 
economy attracted a large influx 
of Latino families, many of them 
low income. A relatively small 
presence in 2000, Latinos made 
up nearly one in six students by 
2010, creating a new challenge to 
maintaining the 40 percent low-
income cap in any given school. 
Parental anger at the school dis-
trict  peaked  when  exploding 
growth led some families to have their children mandatorily 
assigned to schools with a staggered year-round calendar (rather 
than a traditional schedule with summers off) in order to make 
better use of building capacity.

In October 2009, with an influx of funding from conservative 
interests, including the tea party and the Koch brothers, oppo-
nents of the socioeconomic integration plan gained a 5–4 majority 
on the school board and vowed to establish a system of neighbor-
hood schools.33 The majority did succeed in officially eliminating 
the 40 percent low-income cap for schools, but it ran into major 
community resistance in efforts to establish a system of de facto 
segregated neighborhood schools.

Resistance to resegregation came from an interesting coalition 
of civil rights groups and teachers on the one hand, and white 
magnet school parents and business leaders on the other. Fur-
thermore, critical centrist voters became disillusioned with the 
conservative school board majority following a series of events, 
which I’ll briefly review. 

Let’s begin with the resignation of superintendent Del Burns, 
a deeply principled man I’ve come to know well. Burns said that 
he could not, in good conscience, play a part in resegregating 
Wake County schools. Then, when the school board moved to 
immediately reassign a small number of low-income and minority 
students, the NAACP filed a complaint with the US Department 
of Education’s Office for Civil Rights. An accreditation agency also 
began reviewing Wake County’s status.

Civil rights groups, including the NAACP, organized protests at 
board meetings, which drew national attention, including a front 

page Washington Post story highlighting the turmoil. Television 
comedian Stephen Colbert ridiculed Wake County’s board, sug-
gesting, “What’s the use of living in a gated community if my kids 
go to school and get poor all over them?” By 2011, a survey of local 
residents found that 51 percent viewed the school board unfavor-
ably, compared with just 29 percent who viewed it favorably.

The Chamber of Commerce, which supported integration as a 
way of strengthening schools and preparing employees to work 
with a diverse set of colleagues, commissioned a plan, released 
in February 2011, to use public school choice to accommodate 
growth and also produce diversity. The plan tweaked the earlier 
socioeconomic goal to employ diversity measured by academic 
achievement, a very close cousin of 
socioeconomic status. It was clear 
that  business  leaders  did  not 
appreciate national publicity 
suggesting that a world-class 
community  was  planning  to 
consciously  resegregate  its 
schools.

In the fall 2011 school board 
elections, Democrats swept into 
office,  ousting  the  Republican 
school board chair who had led the 
effort for neighborhood schools. 
As  of  this  writing,  the  Wake 
County situation is still in flux, 
but it appears that the school 
district is likely to embrace a third 
way. Eschewing both a continu-
ation of integration by mandatory 
assignment and proposals to reseg-
regate  through  neighborhood 
schools, policymakers appear ready to pursue the hybrid: integra-
tion by socioeconomic status with some element of school choice.
Jefferson County (Louisville) provides an interesting contrast 
with Wake County. A coalition of civil rights groups, teachers, and 
the business community organized early to support integration 
and, thus far, avoid a conservative school board takeover.

Like Wake County schools, the Jefferson County schools 
(which educate 100,000 students, 36 percent of whom are black, 
51 percent white, and 60 percent low income) were created by a 
merger of city and suburban schools in the mid-1970s. After a 
period of court-ordered mandatory busing for racial desegrega-
tion, Jefferson County schools adopted a plan, in the mid-1990s, 
using magnet schools to create racial integration, with the goal 
that all schools should be between 15 and 50 percent black. In 
2002, white parents sued, charging that the use of race in student 
assignment violated the Fourteenth Amendment’s Equal Protec-
tion Clause, and in 2007, the US Supreme Court agreed.

Jefferson County leaders did not give up on integration, how-
ever, and in 2008, the county adopted a new plan that emphasizes 
SES, along with race, in student assignment. Instead of looking at 
each student’s race or SES, the county’s plan looks at the geo-
graphic areas in which students live and labels them as either Area 
A (having below-average income and education levels, and 
above-average minority population) or Area B (the converse). In 
the plan, students choose the schools they want to attend, and 

county officials honor choices with an eye to having Area A stu-
dents constitute between 15 and 50 percent of the student body.
In the 2010 school board elections, supporters of diversity 
feared they might face the same upheaval that Wake County felt 
in its 2009 elections, but in fact, a pro-integration school board 
majority remained in power. How was Jefferson County able to 
avoid most of the political turmoil associated with the Wake 
County plan? It appears that teachers and the business commu-
nity, cognizant of what had happened in Wake County, aggres-
sively supported pro-diversity candidates with strong financial 
contributions. By emphasizing the choice mechanism, Jefferson 
County also avoided the large-scale redistricting that so angered 
many Wake County parents. According 
to a recent district survey, 80 percent 
of parents in Jefferson County favor 
retaining a diversity component in 
the student assignment plan.

Looking broadly at the experi-
ences in Wake County and Jeffer-
son County, three lessons emerge 
about how to make socioeconomic 
integration politically sustainable. 
First, public school choice is a far 
more popular way to promote inte-
gration than compulsory assign-
ment. Choice gives parents a feeling 
of “ownership,” and magnet school 
offerings provide students with 
special  themes  or  pedagogical 
approaches to match their particu-
lar interests. As illustrated in Wake 
County, choice can also provide a 
much better way to accommodate rapid 
growth in student populations because schools can be filled 
through election rather than reassignment. 

Choice and incentives can also make interdistrict integration 
more politically palatable. Strong financial incentives could 
encourage middle-class schools to accept more low-income 
transfers. Just as the right kind of magnet themes or pedagogical 
approaches have successfully drawn affluent students into 
schools in tougher neighborhoods, programs that “magnetize” 
low-income students can overcome opposition to interdistrict 
choice.

Second, constant communication on the part of school offi-
cials and community groups regarding the rationale for integra-
tion policies is critical, particularly in communities such as Wake 
County, which have seen large increases in new families. To be 
effective, civil rights groups should build strong alliances with 
other groups that support integration, including the business 
community, teachers, and magnet school parents. Teachers, who 
know firsthand that they can do a better job in economically inte-
grated schools than in those with overwhelming concentrations 
of poverty, have been at the forefront of battles to integrate schools 
by economic status in such communities as La Crosse, Louisville, 
and Wake County.

Third, national leadership matters. Support from US Secretary 
of Education Arne Duncan, and even the comedian Stephen Col-
bert, may have helped make a difference in turning the Wake 

AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013    11

County public against a school board seeking to resegregate the 
public schools.

Logistical Obstacles
In addition to raising overblown political worries, Washington 
pundits often raise logistical concerns about connecting low-
income students with middle-class schools. In his Time magazine 
piece, for example, Rotherham claimed that there is too much 
distance between low-income students and middle-class schools 
to make school integration feasible, citing a 2008 study suggesting 
that, at most, 20 percent of students could transfer from struggling 
urban schools to better-performing suburban ones within a 
20-minute driving distance.34 But long-standing experience sug-
gests that low-income students in cities such as Boston, Hartford, 
Milwaukee, and Minneapolis are willing 
to endure longer bus rides if what’s 
at the end of the ride is a superior 
education. Indeed, some of these 
programs have lengthy waiting lists 
of students, whose families sign up 
when the children are born.35

And new research concludes 
that  class  segregation  is  not  an 
“immutable reality,” as some sug-
gest. What appears to be the first 
national estimate of the viability of 
socioeconomic school integration 
finds that “dramatic reductions in 
the number of high-poverty schools 
across the United States are within 
reach.”36 (In this study, high-poverty 
schools  are  defined  as  those  in 
which at least 50 percent of the stu-
dents are eligible for free or reduced-
price lunch.)

The study draws upon the National Center for Education Sta-
tistics’ Common Core of Data from 2007–2008 in 46 states, and it 
focuses on students in public elementary schools because subsi-
dized lunch eligibility data at that level are thought to be more 
reliable than in middle and high schools, where students may 
avoid the program because they feel stigmatized when receiving 
free or reduced-price meals. It concludes that the potential for 
reducing the number of low-income schools through intradistrict 
solutions is relatively modest* in most states—but the potential 
of interdistrict programs is significant.

To examine the potential impact of interdistrict integration 
plans, the authors examine six sample states: Colorado, Florida, 
Massachusetts, Missouri, Nebraska, and Virginia. In modeling the 
effects, they assume, rather conservatively, that transfers would 
only be made to contiguous school districts. (In fact, many exist-
ing interdistrict integration plans, such as the Boston METCO 
program, involve students traveling farther distances to noncon-
tiguous suburban districts.)

They conclude that the benefits of interdistrict programs range 
widely, from reducing the number of high-poverty schools by 7 

*Overall, states could reduce the number of high-poverty schools by 15 percent with 
intradistrict strategies, benefiting 1.5 million students.

12    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013

percent in Florida to 52 percent in Nebraska. Virginia could see a 
36 percent reduction, Colorado and Massachusetts could each 
see a 34 percent reduction, and Missouri a 17 percent reduction. 
Taking intra- and interdistrict strategies together could result in 
substantial reductions of high-poverty schools in five of these six 
states. While Florida would see a relatively modest 13 percent 
reduction, two states would see a reduction of more than one-
third (37 percent each in Missouri and Massachusetts), and three 
states would see a reduction of more than one-half (52 percent in 
Colorado, 58 percent in Nebraska, and 60 percent in Virginia).

In sum, the authors conclude, a great deal could be done to 
reduce the proportion of high-poverty public elementary schools 
in the United States, especially if we pursued interdistrict socio-
economic integration strategies. 

Tracking Issues and 

Student Success
Finally, Washington critics raise 
questions about whether tracking 
within schools will undercut inte-
gration’s positive benefits. Rother-
ham, for example, argues that even 
though low-income students gen-
erally do better in more affluent 
schools, these schools are not “con-
sistently effective at educating low-
income students.” Pointing to gaps 
in achievement between different 
demographic groups within afflu-
ent schools, he notes, “students can 
be segregated within schools as well 
as from them.” This is a very legiti-
mate concern, and steps need to be 
taken to ensure that integrated school 
buildings are not resegregated by classroom. But it’s important to 
note that the study of Montgomery County found that low-income 
students assigned to low-poverty schools generally were tracked 
into lower reading and math groups and still performed substan-
tially higher in math than low-income students assigned to 
higher-poverty schools with lots of extra educational programs.

Indeed, part of what keeps districts like Wake, Cambridge, and 
La Crosse going is the successful results for students. One profes-
sor known for doing in-depth studies of urban schools wrote that 
Wake County “reduced the gap between rich and poor, black and 
white, more than any other large urban educational system in 
America.”37 Indeed, research shows that over the years, Wake 
County’s low-income, minority, and white students have gener-
ally outperformed comparable students in other large North 
Carolina districts that do not break up concentrations of poverty. 
La Crosse has also had favorable results. And in Cambridge, the 
graduation rates of low-income and minority students exceed 
those of comparable students in Boston and statewide in Mas-
sachusetts, as the figure on page 13 indicates.

Fighting the Battles in Washington, DC
Although socioeconomic integration is being pursued in an 
increasing number of districts, it has failed to make inroads in 
federal policy, so I’ve tried to connect the concept to key ideas 

that are being promoted by the Obama administration, such as 
school turnarounds and charter schools.

Magnets as School Turnarounds
One of the signature initiatives of Education Secretary Arne Dun-
can is the ambitious effort to turn around America’s lowest-per-
forming schools. Duncan noted that for years districts allowed 
failing schools to slide and has called, instead, for “far-reaching 
reforms” that fundamentally change the culture in the country’s 
worst 5,000 schools.38 Ironically, Duncan’s approach, which 
focused almost entirely on changing the faculty and school gov-
ernance, was itself too timid. 

about salary. They care about school safety, whether they will have 
to spend large portions of their time on classroom management, 
and whether parents will make sure kids do their homework. That 
is why it is so difficult to attract and keep great teachers in high-
poverty schools, even when bonuses are offered.

In 2009, I wrote a report arguing that the most promising “turn-
around” model is one that recognizes these realities and seeks to turn 
high-poverty schools into magnet schools that change not only the 
faculty (if needed) but also the student and parent mix in the school.43 
Failing schools can be shuttered and reopened with new themes and 
pedagogical approaches that attract new teachers and a mix of 
middle-class and low-income students. Meanwhile, some low-
income students from the old school can be given the opportunity 
to fill the spots vacated by higher-income children who had been 

Duncan has written that in Chicago, “we moved the adults out 
of the building, kept the children there, and brought in new 
adults.”39 But the exclusive focus on 
changing the principal and teachers 
is questionable, given that teachers 
and administrators in impover-
ished schools generally lack ade-
quate support and resources. It also 
misses  two-thirds  of  the  larger 
s c h o o l   c o m m u n i t y — w h i c h 
includes students and parents as 
well.  This  partial  turnaround 
approach in Chicago was met with 
“mixed” results.40 The Civic Com-
mittee of the Commercial Club of 
Chicago noted in a 2009 report that 
“most students in the Chicago Pub-
lic Schools continue to fail.”41

In high-poverty schools,  
a child is surrounded by  
classmates who are more  
likely to act out, more likely  
to move during the school 
year, and less likely to have 

large vocabularies.

attending more-affluent schools.

The Obama administration has 
never endorsed this idea, sticking to 
the vain hope that firing teachers 
and bringing in nonunion charters 
will solve our problems. However, 
the idea did catch the attention of 
staff for Senate Health, Education, 
Labor and Pensions (HELP) Com-
mittee chairman Tom Harkin, who 
asked me to brief them on the pol-
icy. In October 2011, the bipartisan 
HELP Committee’s proposal for 
reauthorization of the Elementary 
and  Secondary  Education  Act 
included magnet schools as a turn-
around school option.44

At bottom, the central flaw with 
Duncan’s move-the-adults strategy 
is that it unnecessarily treats socioeconomic segregation as 
acceptable, thereby condemning children to very difficult learn-
ing environments. In high-poverty schools, a child is surrounded 
by classmates who are less likely to have big dreams and, accord-
ingly, are less academically engaged and more likely to act out 
and cut class. Classmates in high-poverty schools are more likely 
to move during the school year, creating disruption in the class-
room, and less likely to have large vocabularies, which in turn 
limits the ability of peers on the playground and in the classroom 
to learn new words.

Integrated Charter Schools
Likewise, my colleagues and I at the Century Foundation have tried 
to interject the principle of socioeconomic integration into the char-
ter school debate. As schools of choice, charters have the potential 
to be more economically integrated than regular public schools, but 
they are in fact more segregated, as funders and policymakers have 
prioritized high-poverty “no excuses” charter schools like KIPP. (See 
“High-Flying High-Poverty Schools” on page 8.)

Still, I’m heartened that an emerging subset of charter schools 

Parents are also an important part of a 
school community. Students benefit when 
parents regularly volunteer in the class-
room and know how to hold school offi-
cials accountable when things go wrong. 
Low-income parents, who may be working 
several jobs, may not own a car, and may 
have had bad experiences themselves as 
students, are four times less likely to be 
members of a PTA and only half as likely 
to volunteer.42

The student and parent makeup of a 
school, in turn, profoundly affects the type 
of teachers who can be recruited. Polls 
consistently find that teachers care more 
about “work environment” than they do 

Cambridge Compares Favorably with Massachusetts 
and Boston on Four-Year Cohort Graduation Rates

Cambridge

Massachusetts

Boston

79.6

69.8

63.0

81.6

70.7

62.3

80.0

61.9

57.4

85.4

89.1

76.6

100.0%

80.0%

60.0%

40.0%

20.0%

0.0%

Low-income students

Black students

Hispanic students

White students

SOURcE: mASSAchUSETTS dEPARTmENT OF ELEmENTARY ANd SEcONdARY EdUcATION, cOhORT 2011 FOUR-YEAR GRAdUATION RATE 
REPORT, hTTP://PROFILES.dOE.mASS.EdU/STATE_REPORT/GRAdRATES.ASPX. 2012 dATA WERE NOT AVAILABLE AS OF PRESS TImE.

AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013    13

The major problem with  
American schools is not 
teachers or their unions,  
but poverty and economic 

segregation.

are consciously seeking a socioeconomic mix by locating in eco-
nomically integrated neighborhoods, drawing students from 
multiple  school  districts,  or  employing  weighted  student 
lotteries.45

T he pursuit of socioeconomic integration policies remains 

a seesaw for me. As I was writing this piece, UC Berkeley 
professor David Kirp wrote a very strong lead article in 
the New York Times Sunday Review section, citing 
impressive evidence about the positive benefits of racially inte-
grated schools. He noted that even the grandchildren of those who 
escaped segregated schools performed better, but then, stuck in 
the old race-based paradigm, concluded, “the hostile majority on 
the Supreme Court and the absence 
of a vocal pro-integration constitu-
ency make integration’s revival a 
near impossibility.”46 Omitted was 
any reference to the legally viable 
socioeconomic integration move-
ment or the teachers, business lead-
ers, and civil rights groups that have 
helped enact these policies across 
the country.

At the same time, there are signs 
of progress. At a May 2012 confer-
ence of civil rights activists, school 
officials, and policymakers com-
memorating the 58th anniversary of 
Brown v. Board of Education, par-
ticipants continually cited Wake 
County’s courageous and effective socioeconomic integration 
plan. And every once and a while, an unlikely ally emerges. After 
Kirp’s piece ran, I participated in a New York Times “Room for 
Debate” forum, urging socioeconomic integration, and I was 
startled to see Michelle Rhee, too, endorse socioeconomic inte-
gration, citing plans in La Crosse and Cambridge. She wrote: 
“Research shows socioeconomic integration clearly benefits low-
income kids. It benefits wealthier students as well; people edu-
cated in diverse schools say as adults they work better with people 
who are demographically different from them.”47

I’ve been highly critical of Rhee’s attack on teachers’ unions in 
venues like Slate and the Washington Post.48 I don’t expect her to 
give up her fixation on unions, but I do hope to help convince 
others of a fundamental but too-often-ignored truth: the major 
problem with American schools is not teachers or their unions, 
but poverty and economic segregation. That’s what the research 
suggests. It’s what 80 school districts have come to realize. And, 
until federal officials catch up, it’s what I will continue to push 
them to acknowledge. 
☐

Endnotes
1. Horace Mann, “First Annual Report (1837),” in The Republic and the School: Horace 
Mann on the Education of Free Men, ed. Lawrence Cremin (New York: Teachers College 
Press, 1957), 23–24, 31–32.
2. James S. Coleman et al., Equality of Educational Opportunity (Washington, DC: US 
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Office of Education, 1966), 22.
3. Gary Orfield, Must We Bus? Segregated Schools and National Policy (Washington, DC: 
Brookings Institution Press, 1978), 69. See also Gary Orfield and Chungmei Lee, Why 
Segregation Matters: Poverty and Educational Inequality (Cambridge, MA: Civil Rights Project 
at Harvard University, January 2005), 8–9. 
4. Holly Holland, “Schools Worried by Clusters of Poverty,” Louisville Courier Journal, 

14    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013

December 11, 1993.
5. Richard D. Kahlenberg, “Turnaround Schools and Charter Schools That Work: Moving 
Beyond Separate but Equal,” in The Future of School Integration: Socioeconomic Diversity as 
an Education Reform Strategy, ed. Richard D. Kahlenberg (New York: Century Foundation, 
2012), 283–308.
6. Richard D. Kahlenberg, Rescuing Brown v. Board of Education: Profiles of Twelve School 
Districts Pursuing Socioeconomic School Integration (New York: Century Foundation, 2007).
7. Stephan Thernstrom and Abigail Thernstrom, America in Black and White: One Nation, 
Indivisible (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1997), 231.
8. Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1, 551 U.S. 701 (2007).
9. Roslyn Arlin Mickelson and Martha Bottia, “Integrated Education and Mathematics 
Outcomes: A Synthesis of Social Science Research,” North Carolina Law Review 88, no. 3 
(2010): 993–1089, 1043.
10. Russell W. Rumberger and Gregory J. Palardy, “Does Segregation Still Matter? The Impact 
of Student Composition on Academic Achievement in High School,” Teachers College Record 
107, no. 9 (2005): 1999–2045.
11. Laura B. Perry and Andrew McConney, “Does the SES of the School Matter? An 
Examination of Socioeconomic Status and Student Achievement Using PISA 2003,” Teachers 

College Record 112, no. 4 (2010): 1137–1162.
12. J. Douglas Willms, “School Composition and 
Contextual Effects on Student Outcomes,” Teachers 
College Record 112, no. 4 (2010): 1008–1038.
13. Douglas N. Harris, Lost Learning, Forgotten 
Promises: A National Analysis of School Racial 
Segregation, Student Achievement, and “Controlled 
Choice” Plans (Washington, DC: Center for 
American Progress, November 24, 2006), 14, 18, 22.
14. Geoffrey Borman and Maritza Dowling, 
“Schools and Inequality: A Multilevel Analysis of 
Coleman’s Equality of Educational Opportunity 
Data,” Teachers College Record 112, no. 5 (2010): 
1201–1246.
15. Ann Mantil, Anne G. Perkins, and Stephanie 
Aberger, “The Challenge of High-Poverty Schools: 
How Feasible Is Socioeconomic School Integra-
tion?” in The Future of School Integration, ed. 
Kahlenberg, 155–222.
16. Heather Schwartz, Housing Policy Is School 
Policy: Economically Integrative Housing Promotes 
Academic Success in Montgomery County, 
Maryland (New York: Century Foundation, 2010).
17. Stacey M. Childress, Denis P. Doyle, and David A. 
Thomas, Leading for Equity: The Pursuit of Excellence 

in Montgomery County Public Schools (Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press, 2009), 3.
18. See Lisa Sanbonmatsu, Jeffrey R. Kling, Greg J. Duncan, and Jeanne Brooks-Gunn, 
Neighborhoods and Academic Achievement: Results from the Moving to Opportunity 
Experiment, NBER Working Paper 11909 (Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic 
Research, January 2006), 18, and 45, Table 2; and Alexander Polikoff, Waiting for Gautreaux: 
A Story of Segregation, Housing, and the Black Ghetto (Evanston, IL: Northwestern University 
Press, 2006).
19. Richard D. Kahlenberg, All Together Now: Creating Middle-Class Schools through Public 
School Choice (Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 2001), 37–42. 
20. Robert Crain and Rita Mahard, Desegregation and Black Achievement (Santa Monica, 
CA: Rand Corporation, 1977), 2. See also David Armor, Forced Justice: School Desegregation 
and the Law (New York: Oxford University Press, 1995).
21. Kahlenberg, All Together Now, 37–42.
22. Marco Basile, “The Cost-Effectiveness of Socioeconomic School Integration,” in The 
Future of School Integration, ed. Kahlenberg, 127–151.
23. Parents Involved in Community Schools, 551 U.S. 701.
24. See Ulrich Boser, Return on Educational Investment: A District-by-District Evaluation of 
U.S. Educational Productivity (Washington, DC: Center for American Progress, January 2011).
25. Susan Aud, William Hussar, Frank Johnson, Grace Kena, Erin Roth, Eileen Manning, 
Xiaolei Wang, and Jijun Zhang, The Condition of Education 2012 (Washington, DC: US 
Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, 2012), Tables A-12-1 and 
A-13-1, 170–172.
26. Elizabeth Kneebone and Emily Garr, The Suburbanization of Poverty: Trends in 
Metropolitan America, 2000 to 2008 (Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, January 
2010).
27. Andrew Rotherham, “Does Income-Based School Integration Work?” Time, October 28, 
2010.
28. See, for example, Lowell C. Rose and Alec M. Gallup, “The 39th Annual Phi Delta Kappa/
Gallup Poll of the Public’s Attitudes Toward the Public Schools,” Phi Delta Kappan 89, no. 1 
(September 2007): 42; and Lowell C. Rose and Alec M. Gallup, “The 38th Annual Phi Delta 
Kappa/Gallup Poll of the Public’s Attitudes Toward the Public Schools,” Phi Delta Kappan 88, 
no. 1 (September 2006): 43.
29. Michael Planty, William Hussar, Thomas Snyder, Grace Kena, Angelina KewalRamani, 
Jana Kemp, Kevin Bianco, and Rachel Dinkes, The Condition of Education 2009 (Washington, 
DC: US Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, 2009), 78, 
Indicator 32.
30. Jennifer Ludden, “What’s Lost When Kids Don’t Ride Bikes to School,” National Public 
Radio, May 2, 2012.

(Continued on page 40)

Economic Integration
(Continued from page 14)

31. For a more detailed look at Wake and Jefferson counties, 
see Sheneka M. Williams, “The Politics of Maintaining 
Balanced Schools: An Examination of Three Districts,” in The 
Future of School Integration, ed. Kahlenberg, 257–279.
32. Maja Vouk, School Statistics and Maps, 2011–2012 (Cary, 
NC: Wake County Public School System, April 6, 2012), 1.
33. Andy Kroll, “How the Koch Brothers Backed Public-
School Segregation,” Mother Jones, August 15, 2011.
34. Erin Dillon, Plotting School Choice: The Challenges of 
Crossing District Lines (Washington, DC: Education Sector, 
August 25, 2008).
35. Jennifer Jellison Holme and Amy Stuart Wells, “School 
Choice beyond District Borders: Lessons for the Reauthoriza-
tion of NCLB from Interdistrict Desegregation and Open 
Enrollment Plans,” in Improving on No Child Left Behind, ed. 
Richard D. Kahlenberg (New York: Century Foundation, 
2008), 208–215.
36. Mantil, Perkins, and Aberger, “The Challenge of 
High-Poverty Schools,” 156.
37. Gerald Grant, Hope and Despair in the American City: 
Why There Are No Bad Schools in Raleigh (Cambridge, MA: 
Harvard University Press, 2009), 92.
38. Arne Duncan, “Education Reform’s Moon Shot,” 
Washington Post, July 24, 2009, A21.
39. Arne Duncan, “Start Over: Turnarounds Should Be the 
First Option for Low-Performing Schools,” Education Week, 
June 17, 2009.
40. Sam Dillon, “U.S. Effort to Reshape Schools Faces 
Challenges,” New York Times, June 2, 2009.
41. Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago, 
Still Left Behind: Student Learning in Chicago’s Public 
Schools (Chicago: Civic Committee of the Commercial Club 
of Chicago, June 2009), 1.
42.  Kahlenberg, All Together Now, 62; and Kathleen 
Herrold and Kevin O’Donnell, Parent and Family Involvement 
in Education, 2006–07 School Year, from the National 
Household Education Surveys Program of 2007 (Washing-
ton, DC: National Center for Education Statistics, August 
2008), 9, Table 3.
43. Richard D. Kahlenberg, Turnaround Schools That Work: 
Moving Beyond Separate but Equal (New York: Century 

Folly of the Big Idea
(Continued from page 21)

In Aesop’s fable “The Frog and the Ox,” 
a frog tries to puff himself up to the size of 
an ox and bursts in the process. We have 
seen many a reform burst, not because it 
was too big per se, but because it puffed 
itself beyond its actual worth. To gauge the 
worth of education reform, we must hold it 
up against our best conception of educa-
tion. This conception must build slowly; it 
must be grounded in literature, mathemat-
ics, history, and other subjects. If we let 
these subjects guide us, if we make room to 
contemplate, absorb, and discuss what 
they hold, we will not get lost. Or, if we do, 
we can call up those things we have learned 
and, through the recalling and reviving, 
find our way again. 
☐

Endnotes
1. Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America, trans. Henry 
Reeve (New York: Colonial Press, 1900), 432.
2. P. J. O’Rourke, “Let’s Cool It with the Big Ideas,” Atlantic 
Magazine, July/August 2012.

Foundation, 2009).
44. Magnet Schools of America, “MSA Supports Senate 
Reauthorization Bill,” October 14, 2011.
45. Richard D. Kahlenberg and Halley Potter, Diverse Charter 
Schools: Can Racial and Socioeconomic Integration Promote 
Better Outcomes for Students? (Washington, DC: Poverty & 
Race Research Action Council; Century Foundation, May 2012).
46. David L. Kirp, “Making Schools Work,” New York Times, 
May 20, 2012.
47. “Is Segregation Back in U.S. Public Schools?” Room for 
Debate (blog), New York Times, May 20, 2012 (see 
especially, Richard D. Kahlenberg, “Integrating Rich and Poor 
Matters Most”; and Michelle Rhee, “Zip Code Shouldn’t 
Affect School Quality”).
48. See Richard D. Kahlenberg, “Still Waiting for 
Superwoman: What Michelle Rhee’s Fans Don’t Get about 
Education Reform,” Slate, February 21, 2011; and Richard D. 
Kahlenberg, “Gov. Scott Walker Can Thank Michelle Rhee 
for Making Teachers Unions the Enemy,” Washington Post, 
February 27, 2011.

High-Flying Schools
(Continued from page 9)

Jacobsen, Lawrence Mishel, and Richard Rothstein, The 
Charter School Dust-Up: Examining the Evidence on 
Enrollment and Achievement (Washington, DC: Economic 
Policy Institute, 2005), 51–65; and Paul Tough, Whatever It 
Takes: Geoffrey Canada’s Quest to Change Harlem and 
America (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 2008), 161. 
But Jeffrey Henig’s review of seven studies disputes the 
“creaming” charge. See Jeffrey R. Henig, What Do We 
Know about the Outcomes of KIPP Schools? (East Lansing, 
MI: Great Lakes Center for Education Research and Practice, 
November 2008), 1.
7. Carnoy et al., Charter School Dust-Up, 61, Table 5.
8. Katrina R. Woodworth, Jane L. David, Roneeta Guha, 
Haiwen Wang, and Alejandra Lopez-Torkos, San Francisco 
Bay Area KIPP Schools: A Study of Early Implementation and 
Achievement, Final Report (Menlo Park, CA: SRI Interna-
tional, 2008), ix, 13–14.
9. Christina Clark Tuttle, Bing-ru Teh, Ira Nichols-Barrer, Brian 
P. Gill, and Philip Gleason, Student Characteristics and 
Achievement in 22 KIPP Middle Schools: Final Report 

(Washington, DC: Mathematica Policy Research, June 2010).
10. Gary Miron, Jessica L. Urschel, and Nicholas Saxton, 
What Makes KIPP Work? A Study of Student Characteristics, 
Attrition, and School Finance (New York: National Center for 
the Study of Privatization in Education, Teachers College, 
Columbia University, March 2011), ii.
11. Ira Nichols-Barrer, Christina Clark Tuttle, Brian P. Gill, and 
Philip Gleason, “Student Selection, Attrition, and 
Replacement in KIPP Middle Schools” (working paper 
presented at the 2011 annual meeting of the American 
Educational Research Association, April 8, 2011). See also 
Richard D. Kahlenberg, “Myths and Realities about KIPP,” 
The Answer Sheet (blog), Washington Post, January 4, 2011; 
and Richard D. Kahlenberg, “Do Self-Selection and Attrition 
Matter in KIPP Schools?” The Answer Sheet (blog), 
Washington Post, June 14, 2011.
12. Henig, What Do We Know about the Outcomes of KIPP 
Schools?
13. Jay Mathews, “Don’t Save Bad Schools—Terminate 
Them,” Washington Post, November 17, 2009.
14. Mathews, Work Hard, 74.
15. Woodworth et al., San Francisco Bay Area KIPP Schools, 
32. See also Erik W. Robelen, “KIPP Study Finds High Student 
Achievement Amid Big Learning Gains,” Education Week, 
September, 24, 2008, 10; and Nanette Asimov, “Students at 
KIPP Perform Better, Study Finds,” San Francisco Chronicle, 
September 18, 2008.
16. Mathews, Work Hard, 263, 285, 308.
17. Mathews, Work Hard, 263, 285 (per pupil expenditure), 
308 (more than $50 million); and Chester Finn, “A Great 
Philanthropist,” Education Gadfly, October 1, 2009 (more 
than $60 million).
18. Miron, Urschel, and Saxton, What Makes KIPP Work?, ii.
19. Jennifer Radcliffe, “KIPP College Grad Rates Draw Both 
Praise and Concern,” Houston Chronicle, April 28, 2011.
20. Erica Frankenberg, Genevieve Siegel-Hawley, and Jia 
Wang, Choice without Equity: Charter School Segregation 
and the Need for Civil Rights Standards (Los Angeles: Civil 
Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles at UCLA, January 
2010), 72, Table 30. Data are from the 2007–08 NCES 
Common Core of Data. 
21. Center for Research on Educational Outcomes (CREDO), 
Multiple Choice: Charter School Performance in 16 States 
(Stanford, CA: CREDO, Stanford University, June 2009), 44, 
Table 9.

3. Nathan Heller, “Listen and Learn,” New Yorker, July 9 and 16, 
2012, 76; and Alex Pareene, “Don’t Mention Income Inequality 
Please, We’re Entrepreneurs,” Salon, May 21, 2012.
4. Sir Ken Robinson, “Sir Ken Robinson: Bring on the Learning 
Revolution!” TEDTalks video, filmed February 2010, posted May 
2010; Salman Khan, “Salman Khan: Let’s Use Video to Reinvent 
Education,” TEDTalks video, filmed March 2011, posted March 
2011; and Susan Cain, “Susan Cain: The Power of Introverts,” 
TEDTalks video, filmed February 2012, posted March 2012.
5. James C. Scott, Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to 
Improve the Human Condition Have Failed (New Haven, CT: Yale 
University Press, 1998), 90. Scott credits the term “high 
modernism” to David Harvey (ibid., 377n3).
6. For a history of education reform of the past century, see Diane 
Ravitch, Left Back: A Century of Battles Over School Reform (New 
York: Simon & Schuster, 2001).
7. Sol Stern, “Bloomberg and Klein Rush In,” City Journal, April 8, 
2003; and David M. Herszenhorn, “Teachers Protest the Methods 
of a Regional Superintendent,” New York Times, February 4, 
2005.
8. National Center on Universal Design for Learning, “What Does 
It Mean to Say That Curricula Are Disabled?” www.udlcenter.org/
aboutudl/udlcurriculum/disabledcurricula; National Center on 
Universal Design for Learning, “UDL Guidelines—Version 2.0: 
Principle 1. Provide Multiple Means of Representation,” www.
udlcenter.org/aboutudl/udlguidelines/principle1; and National 
Center on Universal Design for Learning, “FAQs from the National 
UDL Task Force,” www.udlcenter.org/advocacy/faq_guides/
general.
9. Sabrina Tavernise, “Soaring Poverty Casts Spotlight on ‘Lost 
Decade,’ ” New York Times, September 13, 2011; Alemayehu 
Bishaw, “Poverty: 2010 and 2011” (Washington, DC: US Census 
Bureau, September 2012); Michael I. Norton and Dan Ariely, 
“Building a Better America—One Wealth Quintile at a Time,” 
Perspectives on Psychological Science 6, no. 1 (January 2011): 
9–12; Lawrence Mishel and Natalie Sabadish, CEO Pay and the 
Top 1%: How Executive Compensation and Financial-Sector Pay 
Have Fueled Income Inequality (Washington, DC: Economic Policy 
Institute, 2012), 2; Bureau of Labor Statistics, “Mass Layoffs—

September 2012,” news release, October 23, 2012, www.stats.
bls.gov/news.release/archives/mmls_10232012.pdf; and 
Catherine Rampell, “The Help-Wanted Sign Comes with a 
Frustrating Asterisk,” New York Times, July 25, 2011.
10. For the sake of simplicity, I treat the terms “college” and 
“university” as near-synonyms here, but they refer to institutions 
with different purposes and histories. For more on the distinction, 
see Andrew Delbanco, College: What It Was, Is, and Should Be 
(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2012), 67–101.
11. Delbanco, College, 32–33.
12. Terence J. G. Tracey and Steven B. Robbins, “The 
Interest-Major Congruence and College Success Relation: A 
Longitudinal Study,” Journal of Vocational Behavior 69, no. 1 
(August 2006): 64–89.
13. Many districts have implemented career education programs 
in elementary and middle schools. In 2005, the South Carolina 
Legislature passed the Education and Economic Development Act, 
which includes the mandate that all middle school students must 
take a career inventory to help determine their career major in 
high school. See SC Commission on Higher Education, “South 
Carolina Education and Economic Development Act,” www.che.
sc.gov/AcademicAffairs/EEDA/EEDA.htm. For a critique of the 
“dropout billionaire,” see Frank Donoghue, “Idolizing Dropouts: 
The Real Issues,” Innovations (blog), Chronicle of Higher 
Education, February 23, 2012.
14. For more information on these programs, see their respective 
websites: www.dallasinstitute.org; www.yale.edu/ynhti; and 
www.bard.edu/mat. I am on the faculty of the Dallas Institute’s 
Sue Rose Summer Institute for Teachers. 
15. Robert Frost, “Birches,” Mountain Interval (New York: Henry 
Holt, 1916), 37–40.
16. Dante Alighieri, Paradiso 13.94–102.
17. Jan Marthedal Rasmussen, “Arithmetic by Geometry,” 
Kanooth (blog), April 24, 2010, www.kanooth.com/
blog/2010/04/arithmetic-by-geometry.html.
18. G. H. Hardy, A Mathematician’s Apology (Cambridge: 
Cambridge University Press, 1967), 98.

40    AmERIcAN EdUcATOR  |  WINTER 2012–2013



