Base URL: valorcollegiate.org
Parent URL: https://valorcollegiate.org/tssaa-legislative-council-approves-valor-proposal-for-religious-headwear-amendment-with-immediate-effect/
File URL: HTTPS://CMS-FILES.TSSAA.ORG/DOCUMENTS/TSSAA/LEGISLATIVE-COUNCIL/LC-12-20-MINUTES.PDF
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL MINUTES 

December 10, 2020 
Video Conference 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  Roll Call 

2.  Approved Minutes of Previous Meeting 

 

3.  Election of Officers 

Dan Black was elected to continue to serve as President of Legislative Council.  
Keith Turner was elected to serve as Vice President of the Legislative Council. 
 

4.  2020 Regional Meetings 

 
Regional Meetings in East, Middle, and West TN were held virtually on 
November 4th.  There were 3 proposals for changes in the TSSAA Bylaws on the 
agenda for consideration.   
 
a.  Approved proposed addition to Article IV, Section 7 (Rules of the Game) of 

the TSSAA Bylaws (effective immediately): 

Religious headwear is permitted, provided it is not abrasive, hard, or 
dangerous to the participant and any other player, and must be attached in 
such a way it is highly unlikely to come off during play.  Religious headwear 
does not need to comply with any of the color restrictions defined in 
applicable sport uniform codes. 
 
Religious headwear in wrestling must comply with the safety standards of the 
sport and be approved by the head coach and contest referee. 
 
Hijabs, turbans, and yarmulkes are acceptable types of religious headwear. 
 

b.  Denied proposed Change to Article II, Section 8 (Eighth Grade Participation) 

of the TSSAA Bylaws: 

An eighth grade student is eligible to participate for a member school if 
he/she is enrolled at the school.  A seventh grade student is eligible to 
participate for a member school in individual sports if he/she is enrolled at the 
school.  Any student repeating the seventh or eighth grade shall not be 
eligible for high school participation during the year that the student is 
repeating the seventh or eighth grade.  Participation as a seventh or eighth 
grader shall not reduce the number of semesters a student is allowed to 
participate after enrolling in the ninth grade. 
 

c.  Denied proposed changes to Article IV, Section 8 (TSSAA Sports Calendar 

Definitions) of the TSSAA Bylaws: 

Off-Season 
Begins with the school’s elimination from the post season tournament play in 
a particular sport and concludes with the end of the school year. Coaches 

may deliver instruction in an individual or team setting to no more than the 
stated number of players allotted for each particular sport (Basketball-3, 
Baseball-5, Softball-5, Football-7, and Soccer-6). 
 
Pre-Season Practice Rule 
Begins the first day of school until the first official day of practice in that 
particular sport.  Coaches may deliver instruction in an individual or team 
setting to no more than the stated number of players allotted for each 
particular sport (Basketball-3, Baseball-5, Softball-5, Football-7, and Soccer-
6). 
 
Submitted by Pope John Paul II High School 

 

5.  New Business 

 
a.  Denied proposed addition to Article I, Section 6 (Cooperative Programs) of 

the TSSAA Bylaws 
 
Schools participating in a cooperative program shall combine their 
enrollments to find their classification for that sport. 
 
Submitted by Tellico Plains High School 

 



