School Board
Shannon Lynch, President
    Shannon Lynch received her Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies and Sociology at Northern Arizona University. She went on to get her post-degree dual teaching certification in Elementary and Special Education, concurrently earning a Masters in Special Education. Throughout her college years, she was employed in elementary and special education classrooms of varying ages. Her philosophy lies in encouraging the development of each student's unique strengths as well as fostering a safe environment in which to overcome individual challenges. She also strives to integrate the arts throughout her curriculum and nurture an enthusiasm for learning in her students.
Sandy Merrill, Secretary/Treasurer
    Sandy Merrill has lived in Prescott Valley for the last 7 years and owns and operates Mosaic Insurance in Prescott Valley.  She has been in the insurance industry for over 35 years.  Married and has two children and enjoys riding motorcycles with her husband, fishing and outdoor activities.
Dr. Gary Troutman, DDS, Board Member
    Gary is a retired Navy Dentist who, with his wife, Jackie, has lived in Prescott for over thirteen years. Eight of his thirty years in the Navy were served on the faculty of the Navy Postgraduate Dental School and as Director of the General Practice Residency Program at Bethesda Naval Hospital. This experience in graduate education and the need for continuing education in the medical professions reinforced his belief in the importance of a sound elementary educational background. Until his recent retirement, he was the senior staff dentist at the Bob Stump Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center here in Prescott.
Morgan Swift, Board Member
    Morgan moved to Prescott two years ago from Phoenix and loves our small town. She has a degree in Art History, and completed her internship at the Guggenheim in New York. She is very active in the Quad City area, volunteering at homeless shelters and actively homeschooling her two boys while enjoying her domesticated Chino farm.
Shannon Silvey, Board Member
    Shannon has a Bachelor of Arts in Human Communications from California State San Bernardino. She has owned several businesses, working in bookkeeping, managing employees and in claims adjustment. Her two children attend WCC and she is a paraprofessional here, working with all students.
Board Notices and Agenda
These are the meeting notices and agendas for the current fiscal year. Hard copies can be found in the main office of our school at: 2100 Willow Creek Road, Prescott. The meeting notices and agendas are posted outside the office door by 9:00 a.m. the day prior to the meeting for public viewing.
          Click on the month desired         
January Board Notice and Agenda
February Board Notice and Agenda
March Board Notice and Agenda
April Board Notice and Agenda
May Board Notice and Agenda
June Board Notice and Agenda
July Board Notice and Agenda
August Board Notice and Agenda
September Board Notice and Agenda
October Board Notice and Agenda
November Board Notice and Agenda
December Board Notice and Agenda
Budget
Annual Financial Report
Hearing Notification
      Copyright © 1999-2017    
    'A' Rated School    
    ZERO tolerance for bullying ensures a safe, family-like environment    
    Small Class Size offers a personalized education for each student    
    FREE after-school tutoring    
    FREE K-8 Public School (Full-day Kindergarten ONLY $9/day    
    Cutting Edge Technology engages students in learning and computer literacy    