Accredited by
Quick Links:
For Parents
  |  
For Teacher
s
   |  
Jobs
   |   
FAQ
   |   
Right to Know
Home
About
Staff
Meal Programs
Board
Board Documents
Calendar
News
Jobs
Enroll
Withdrawal
Lottery Policy
Contact
Mana Academy Mission
To develop scholars who are rooted in their native cultures and are prepared to be the leaders of tomorrow.
Mana Academy Vision
Mana Academy Charter School is a community and family centered school committed to educational excellence and cultural sustainability. Our administration, teachers and parents work together as partners to enhance the academic achievement and learning of all students. We provide a learning environment that is culturally relevant and inclusive. We strive to meet the needs of all learners by designing academically challenging work that is meaningful, engaging and inspire innovation, exploration, discovery and creativity. We empower all students to access, enroll and graduate from college.
All students who graduate from Mana Academy will be equipped with the necessary knowledge and skills to be successful leaders and positive agents of change in their local, regional and global communities.
Mana Academy Philosophy
Relationships
We believe a caring relationship between teachers and learners is essential for learning to occur.
We believe that parents and families have expertise that can be leveraged to enhance instruction and academic excellence.
We believe that family engagement is key to a learner’s academic success.
We believe educational excellence is a shared responsibility of students, parents, school staff, and community.
Rigor
We believe all learners are capable of learning, meeting high expectations, thinking critically, and becoming life­long learners.
We believe all learners enter our schools with a wealth of cultural and intellectual knowledge that will be validated and encouraged.
We believe all classroom assessment practices will be targeted at determining what students are capable of achieving and not merely what they know.
We believe all learners, with appropriate support, will demonstrate learning at high levels.
Results
We believe in using valuable assessment data to inform all instructional decisions and practices.
We believe in making all educational data accessible to parents.
We believe in being transparent with the academic progress of our students and school.
We believe all learners will achieve their academic goals.
Our School Wide Goals
Increase performance on SAGE assessment over the previous year.
Graduate all high school seniors.
Successful implementation of Family Engagement Model
Quarterly updated Individual Learning Plan for every student
Mana Academy Motto
Learning Today. Leading Tomorrow.
Mana Academy Creed
We are the scholars of Mana Academy.
We embody the dreams and aspirations of our ancestors. We represent our families and communities.
We are dedicated, committed, and focused. We respect ourselves and all people.
We will not yield to uncertainty or fear. We will not accept mediocrity.
We take ownership of our academic success. We are future college graduates.
We are united. We are family. We are Mana.
Mana Academy Charter School
K-6 Campus
2355 S. Technology Drive, West Valley City, UT 84119
Phone: 801.972.MANA (6262)  |  Fax: 801.401.7135
Secondary Campus
3487 W 2100 South, Suite 200, West Valley City, UT 84119
Front Desk: 385.800.9100 | School Counselor: 385.800.9102 | Fax: 801.401.7135
Home
   |   
About
   |   
Jobs
  |  
Our Charter
  |  
Calendar
  |  
Our Board
   |   
Special Education
 | 
AHERA Notice
Copyright ©  2012 - 2015 Mana Academy. All Rights Reserved.