ABOUT TEXANS CAN
Our story
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Required Disclosures
Procurement & Business Opportunities
Careers
Human Resources
CAMPUS LOCATIONS
Austin Can
Dallas Can – Ross Avenue
Dallas Can – Grant East
Dallas Can – Carrollton / Farmers Branch
Dallas Can – Pleasant Grove
Dallas Can – Oak Cliff
Fort Worth Can – Lancaster Avenue
Fort Worth Can – Westcreek
Garland Can
Houston Can – Hobby
Houston Can – Southwest
Houston Can – North
San Antonio Can
News & Events
Calendar
Support Texans Can!
Donate
Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund
Countdown to Class 2017
Dehart Memorial Scholarship Fund
Insights
Parents & Students
Student Stories
Curriculum
College and Career Readiness
Student Nutrition
Child Care
Parent Portal
Alumni Association
Contact Us
Newsletter Sign Up
News & Events Message List
menu
fb
tw
yt
in
Donate
Cars for Kids
Enroll Now!
College and Career Readiness
Our goal is to prepare students for their future economic independence.
College & Career Readiness
Download
End of Year Report
Texans Can Academies believes in reaching beyond our students’ graduation day.  We know that earning a high school diploma is the first step to becoming self-sufficient and creating the path to their future success.  And that is something they see and hear from us every day when they are in our schools.  What’s next for your future?
We have a full-time College and Career Transition Coordinator who counsels students with their post-graduation college education or workforce career goals.  Reggie Dupard is a Southern Methodist University Hall of Famer football running back that went on to play for the New England Patriots and Washington Redskins.  After professional football, Reggie has devoted his life to counseling and advising youth.  
College
Reggie works individually with students to assure they are taking college readiness courses to apply for college and to be prepared academically once they are there.  He works with community colleges and area universities to create dual credit programs at Texans Can Academies and make sure students are taking the courses needed in high school to qualify for college admissions. 
Through Reggie’s management, one-on-one advising and workshops are offered to students to prepare them for “life in college.” Transitioning to college is difficult for the most prepared students and Texans Can believes our students benefit from extra coaching with academic AND social skills to succeed as college students.
Career Readiness
Not all kids want to go to college or are ready to enter college right after high school graduation. Those students need to be prepared to enter the work force and be gainfully employed after high school.  We want them to step into careers, not jobs that won’t provide the resources for them to live independently.  
Reggie Dupard oversees workshops for resume writing, interviewing and filling out job applications.  He also works with the local business community to find internship opportunities for students. Each campus has an office that leads students through the process of determining their career goals while providing the steps they need to take to be employed in a job in which they will succeed.
all
Social Media Hub
fb
tw
yt
in
Home
Schools and Programs
ABOUT
Parent/Student
Support Texans Can
News & Events
Contact
Alumni
Texans Can Academies
325 W. 12th Street, Dallas, TX, 75208
Phone: 
214-944-1985
 | Fax: 214-944-1930
TANIA’S STORY
She was bullied and sexually harassed. She wanted to tell someone,…
Read Tania's Story
Careers at Texans Can Academies
Copyright © 2017 Texans Can Academies. All Rights Reserved |  501(c)(3) non-profit organization EIN is 75-2251099.
Custom web design by: 
Big D Creative
 | 
Sitemap
f