ABOUT TEXANS CAN
Our story
Leadership
Board of Trustees
Required Disclosures
Procurement & Business Opportunities
Careers
Human Resources
CAMPUS LOCATIONS
Austin Can
Dallas Can – Ross Avenue
Dallas Can – Grant East
Dallas Can – Carrollton / Farmers Branch
Dallas Can – Pleasant Grove
Dallas Can – Oak Cliff
Fort Worth Can – Lancaster Avenue
Fort Worth Can – Westcreek
Garland Can
Houston Can – Hobby
Houston Can – Southwest
Houston Can – North
San Antonio Can
News & Events
Calendar
Support Texans Can!
Donate
Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund
Countdown to Class 2017
Dehart Memorial Scholarship Fund
Insights
Parents & Students
Student Stories
Curriculum
College and Career Readiness
Student Nutrition
Child Care
Parent Portal
Alumni Association
Contact Us
Newsletter Sign Up
News & Events Message List
menu
fb
tw
yt
in
Donate
Cars for Kids
Enroll Now!
News & Events
Upcoming Events
San Antonio Can Academy – January 2018 – Graduation
Jan 19, 2018
NAU Foundation…
 Category: Community Event                    
Fort Worth Can Academy – January 2018 – Graduation
Jan 25, 2018
Southwestern Baptist Theological SeminaryTruett Auditorium2001 W. Seminary DriveFort Worth, TX…
 Category: Community Event                    
Dallas Can Academy CFB – January 2018 – Graduation
Jan 27, 2018
Webb Chapel Church of Christ13425 Webb Chapel RoadFarmers Branch, Tx…
 Category: Community Event                    
Fort Worth Can Academy – Lancaster – January 2018 – Graduation
Feb 1, 2018
Southwestern Baptist Theological SeminaryTruett Auditorium2001 W. Seminary DriveFort Worth, TX…
 Category: Community Event                    
Houston Can Academy – January 2018 – Graduation
Feb 2, 2018
Houston Can Academy – Southwest9745 Bissonett DriveHouston, Tx…
 Category: Community Event                    
View More Events
press releases
Fort Worth Can Academy Holds Grand Opening for Wee Can Academy – Lancaster Ave.
October 10, 2017
The Fort Worth Can Academy at Lancaster Avenue held a grand opening, ribbon-cutting and dedication ceremony Wednesday, Oct. 4, for its new childcare and education center — the Louella and Nicholas Martin Wee Can Academy — which will enroll approximately 79 children.
The Louella and Nicholas Martin Wee Can Academy is located at 1316 E. Lancaster Avenue in Fort Worth and is attached to the Fort Worth Can Academy.
Texas Can Academies President and CEO Richard Marquez remarked on the growth and expansion of the Fort Worth Texas Can Academies, saying, “We’ve come a long way, from two embarrassing buildings to two very beautiful facilities and all placed in the appropriate place.”
“The uniqueness of this place is that when people first heard that we wanted to buy this building and move in they said, ‘We’re afraid for the safety of your children,’ ” Marquez said. “But we said don’t worry about our kids, they live in tougher neighborhoods than this. They know how to handle these kinds of things”
Wee Can Academy was created by Texas Can Academy to help address barriers to education for high school students, such as early parenthood. Where Texas Can Academies fill a gap in educational opportunities for the students, the Wee Can Academies go a step further and assist not only the students but their children, giving them “that support [and] that second chance they need to get through school,” Marquez said.
Almesha Jackson, a current student parent at Fort Worth Can Academy, spoke at the dedication, calling the Wee Can Academy “a big blessing.”
“I know the students at the school, including myself, [think] it is great that the Wee Can has started because now student don’t have to miss school because they don’t have a babysitter,” Jackson said.
Students in the Can Academy can attend school and have their children looked after at Wee Can. Wee Can also serves to help children of the academy staff and those who are classified as homeless, thanks to a partnership between Fort Worth Can Academy and both the Presbyterian Night Shelter and the Fort Worth Salvation Army.
Toby Owen with the Presbyterian Night Shelter said he is really excited to have the Wee Academy coming to the neighborhood.
“There are so many needy children in our area — just across the street in our Morris Foundation Women and Children’s Building we had 40 homeless mothers spend the night last night with 101 children,” Owen said. “Of those 101 children, 42 of them will qualify for this daycare program. Not only will Wee Academy be making a difference for the students and their children that will be here, but it has potential to impact hundreds of homeless children each and every year.”
He added that he feels it’s partnerships like the one they and the Salvation Army have with Texas Can that make the city of Fort Worth, and individuals in the city, better.
The school is named for the academy’s long-time supporters and philanthropists Louella “Lou” Martin, Ph.D. and Nicholas Martin. The dedication ceremony was held in honor of the Martin’s “passion and dedication to the education of Fort Worth’s children,” according to a news release.
“Nick and I are very happy to be a part of the Fort Worth Can Academy, especially Wee Can Academy. We love children, we are very blessed with 19 grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren so far, so we do love children,” Lou said.
“The global community sets up the idea that although each person is not physically close to others throughout the world, we are all neighbors in the sense that the actions we take as individuals impact not only our immediate surroundings, but also the rest of the world,” she said.
Earlier this year, Fort Worth Can Academies honored Lou with a Lifetime Achievement Award for her influence in the Fort Worth community during the organization’s Cares for Kids Luncheon.
Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price attended the dedication and ribbon cutting as well, saying that
Fort Worth Can Academies fit in “real well” with the city’s Read Fort Worth initiative.
Price explained that for children to succeed, they need to be able to read on-level by the third grade. She said that children who start really early are better critical thinkers and learners.
“Seventy-four percent of our prison population reads below a third-grade level. There’s a corresponding factor here,” Price said. “We need a well-educated workforce and Fort Worth is blessed to have this facility.”
Marquez said that the Texas Education Agency approved Texas Can’s expansion of its charter to include pre-kindergarten teaching. Because of this, the Louella and Nicholas Martin Wee Can Academy will be able to offer on-site education for children 6 weeks to 4 years old, as well as after-school care for children age 5-12.
Download and
 Read Full Article
all
Social Media Hub
fb
tw
yt
in
Home
Schools and Programs
ABOUT
Parent/Student
Support Texans Can
News & Events
Contact
Alumni
Texans Can Academies
325 W. 12th Street, Dallas, TX, 75208
Phone: 
214-944-1985
 | Fax: 214-944-1930
DAMETRI’S STORY
All my life I have had to overcome problems that I thought would…
Read Dametri's Story
Careers at Texans Can Academies
Copyright © 2017 Texans Can Academies. All Rights Reserved |  501(c)(3) non-profit organization EIN is 75-2251099.
Custom web design by: 
Big D Creative
 | 
Sitemap
f