Shiloh School District
Pride in the Past, Preparation for the Future.
Home
School / District Info
 »
Annual Parent Rights Notification
Calendars
EPA Budget
 »
EPA 2013-2014
EPA 2014-2015
EPA 2016-2017
MTG Minutes
 »
SSC-DAC
DELAC
Parent Student Handbook (English)
Parent Student Handbook (Spanish)
Pesticide Use
School Reports
 »
SARC
LCAP
Salary Schedules
District Budget
News
Staff
 »
Certificated Teachers
School Staff
Trustees
About Us
Contact Us
Navigate to...
Home
School / District Info
–Annual Parent Rights Notification
–Calendars
–EPA Budget
––EPA 2013-2014
––EPA 2014-2015
––EPA 2016-2017
–MTG Minutes
––SSC-DAC
––DELAC
–Parent Student Handbook (English)
–Parent Student Handbook (Spanish)
–Pesticide Use
–School Reports
––SARC
––LCAP
–Salary Schedules
–District Budget
News
Staff
–Certificated Teachers
–School Staff
–Trustees
About Us
Contact Us
					About Shiloh	
Home
About Shiloh
Shiloh is located on Paradise Road eight miles west of the city of Modesto and is the only school in its district. Established in 1880, the district encompasses approximately 25 square miles. Our school maintains a rural school atmosphere in an agricultural-type setting while still in close proximity to the urbanized area to the east. Shiloh School has six classrooms; approximately 140 students attend daily. Shiloh is one of three rural elementary school districts which feed into Modesto High School where eighth grade graduates attend.
The Shiloh School District is one of the oldest in Stanislaus County. Pride here is a product of the several generations of families who have attended Shiloh through the years. At Shiloh, children can maintain their own identity in our "small school" concept. We continue our task of maintaining all-around educational excellence.
GEOGRAPHICAL BOUNDARIES State law mandates that students shall attend the elementary school in the residence area of their parent/guardian (unless an interdistrict agreement has been approved). The boundaries of the Shiloh School District attendance area are somewhat irregular but generally follow Maze Boulevard (Highway 132) to the north, Iowa Avenue to the east, Tuolumne River to the south, and San Joaquin River to the west. A map outlining this attendance area is posted for reference in the school main office.
Recent News
January 15, 2013
MISSION STATEMENT
					Shiloh School will maintain clear academic and behavioral…				
Read more
August 14, 2015
California Physical Fitness Testing and California Assessment of Student
					Physical fitness testing results have been released.  Our…				
Read more
Shiloh School District
 © 2017.	 Site by 
mojitech.com