SUN VALLEY
                About                
Overview
Our Mission
Meet Our Staff
Governance
                Calendar                
                Family Link                
Family Link
Enrollment
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Supply Lists
                Giving                
Arizona Tax Credit
Fry's Community Rewards Program
Donate Supplies
                Contact                
                Preschool                
“Great school, great people that work there I am really happy to have my kid's there.”
- SVCS Parent
“This school is simply amazing! Love the teachers, administrators, and the students!”
- SVCS Parent
“Amazing school with amazing staff. I love how involved some of the teachers are with their students and above and beyond for the student's comfort so they can learn more. For example, Mrs. Yee is amazing in helping my daughter with not only her education but also and her self-worth and she does all that while enforcing strict rules and respect for others.”
- SVCS Parent
“The teachers and staff are friendly. My son loves this school and learns new things every day. ”
- SVCS Parent
“This is the most amazing school I have ever had the privilege to work for. I count myself lucky and blessed to teach our children and bond with our families, not to mention gain the amazing support and friendship of fellow staff at Sun Valley.”
- SVCS Staff Member
“My kids have been attending Sun Valley for a few years! Best decision I made transferring them to this school...”
- SVCS Parent
“It is an awesome school...trust me I know.!☺☺”
- SVCS Parent
Arizona Tax Credit
Donate and Receive a Tax Credit
Donate your 2017 Arizona Public School Tax Credit to Sun Valley. It’s the best way to give to Sun Valley without spending a thing!
As a public school in Arizona, Sun Valley is eligible to receive educational tax credits. To be eligible for the 2017 tax year, all tax credits must be received by April 15, 2018. Individual filers may donate up to $200 annually, and joint filers may donate up to $400 annually.
A minimal convenience fee is applied to tax credits paid through PayPal. The fee is applied so that you may receive the full credit amount.
Option 1: 
Through the Mail
Download 
tax credit form
Send donations made out to Sun Valley to:								
5806 S 35th Ave.								
Phoenix, AZ 85041							
Option 2: 
Online Through PayPal
Fry’s Community Rewards Program
Sun Valley works alongside our Neighborhood Fry’s Food Stores in the Community Rewards Program. All our families need to do is to register and enroll their Fry’s VIP Card online. Every time you swipe it at Fry’s, a portion of that purchase goes toward our school.
Go to Fry’s to enroll and sign up. 
ENROLL
Select ‘Sign-In.’
Enter your email and password then select ‘sign in.’
Select ‘My Account’, you should see Account Summary at the top.
Scroll down, Click ‘ENROLL’ under Community Rewards. If prompted, enter personal information.
Under Find Your Organization: Enter 84711 or Sun Valley Charter School then select ‘search’.)
Under Select Your Organization: Select box next to your organization.
Then select ‘save changes.’
If you have registered correctly, you should now see your organization information listed under ‘Community Rewards’ on your Account Summary page.
What do they do?  Fry’s gives cash back to our school for purchases during the school year.
Donate Supplies
Paper
Lined Paper
Copy Paper
Construction Paper
Graph Paper
Classroom Supplies
Rulers
Markers
Scissors
Glue
Highlighters
Tape
Index Cards
Pencils
Pens (black, blue, red)
Folders
Binders
Notebooks
Popsicle Sticks
Staplers
General Office Supplies
Extracurricular Equipment
Musical instruments
Art supplies
Digital Cameras
Books
Dictionaries
Spanish/English Dictionaries
Thesauri
Books
Test Prep Materials
Playground balls and equipment (basketballs, bouncy balls, footballs, volleyballs, soccer balls)
New and gently used student uniforms
Sun Valley Charter School
Tanae Morrison, Ed.D. - Executive Director
Tel (602) 692-4914
Fax (602) 276-6298
Our Mission
About
Family Link
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Employment
Español
 Like us on Facebook
© 2017 Sun Valley Charter School. Website by 
Integrated
.