SUN VALLEY
                About                
Overview
Our Mission
Meet Our Staff
Governance
                Calendar                
                Family Link                
Family Link
Enrollment
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Supply Lists
                Giving                
Arizona Tax Credit
Fry's Community Rewards Program
Donate Supplies
                Contact                
                Preschool                
“The teachers and staff are friendly. My son loves this school and learns new things every day. ”
- SVCS Parent
“Great school, great people that work there I am really happy to have my kid's there.”
- SVCS Parent
“My kids have been attending Sun Valley for a few years! Best decision I made transferring them to this school...”
- SVCS Parent
“This is the most amazing school I have ever had the privilege to work for. I count myself lucky and blessed to teach our children and bond with our families, not to mention gain the amazing support and friendship of fellow staff at Sun Valley.”
- SVCS Staff Member
“It is an awesome school...trust me I know.!☺☺”
- SVCS Parent
“Amazing school with amazing staff. I love how involved some of the teachers are with their students and above and beyond for the student's comfort so they can learn more. For example, Mrs. Yee is amazing in helping my daughter with not only her education but also and her self-worth and she does all that while enforcing strict rules and respect for others.”
- SVCS Parent
“This school is simply amazing! Love the teachers, administrators, and the students!”
- SVCS Parent
Enrollment
It truly is a new day in educational excellence at Sun Valley Charter School. Due to our commitment to maintain a focused program of study, we are enrolling students grades K-8 for the 2017-2018 school year. We invite you to come be a part of the Sun Valley family!
Enrollment Forms
The following forms along with the addition information listed below must be completed and may be submitted in person or by fax at 602.276.6298.
Parent Pre-enrollment Checklist
Enrollment Form
Student Health and Medical History Form
Emergency Form
Residency Documentation Form
PHLOTE Home Language Form
No Child Left Behind Form
Parent Consent Form
Records Request Form
Request for Additional Information
Additional Forms
In addition to the above forms, the following documents are required to complete registration prior to your child's first day of school:
Withdrawal form from previous school
Original Birth Certificate
Current Immunization Record
Proof of residence
Discipline Records
Special Education records (if applicable)
Student Health and Medical History
Academic assessment/student profile (administered by SVCS)
AzMerit/SAT 10
Other Documents
Policy and Procedure Manual
SPED Policies and Procedures
Student Harassment and Bullying Policy
SVCS Special Education Board Policy and Procedures
National School Lunch Program Parent Letter
Admission Eligibility
Sun Valley Charter School accepts students from all school districts as well as private schools. Admission is not limited based upon ethnicity, national origin, gender, income level, disabling condition, and proficiency in the English Language or athletic ability. Sun Valley Charter School is a public school, so no tuition is charged to the student. Additionally, provided the student has transportation, there are no geographical limitations. There may be charges for some extracurricular activities and electives which your students choose to participate in but are not required in the normal educational program offered by Sun Valley Charter School. Sun Valley Charter School will admit all eligible students who submit a timely application. If, by the application deadline, the number of applications exceeds the capacity of a program, class, grade level or building, applicants will be selected for the available slots through an equitable selection process referred to as a lottery. After the application deadline, pupils for any remaining slots or on a waiting list will be accepted in a lottery type system. Sun Valley Charter School will give enrollment preference to pupils returning to the charter school in the second or any subsequent year of its operation and to siblings of pupils already enrolled in the school.
Sun Valley Charter School
Tanae Morrison, Ed.D. - Executive Director
Tel (602) 692-4914
Fax (602) 276-6298
Our Mission
About
Family Link
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Employment
Español
 Like us on Facebook
© 2017 Sun Valley Charter School. Website by 
Integrated
.