SUN VALLEY
                About                
Overview
Our Mission
Meet Our Staff
Governance
                Calendar                
                Family Link                
Family Link
Enrollment
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Supply Lists
                Giving                
Arizona Tax Credit
Fry's Community Rewards Program
Donate Supplies
                Contact                
                Preschool                
“Amazing school with amazing staff. I love how involved some of the teachers are with their students and above and beyond for the student's comfort so they can learn more. For example, Mrs. Yee is amazing in helping my daughter with not only her education but also and her self-worth and she does all that while enforcing strict rules and respect for others.”
- SVCS Parent
“My kids have been attending Sun Valley for a few years! Best decision I made transferring them to this school...”
- SVCS Parent
“It is an awesome school...trust me I know.!☺☺”
- SVCS Parent
“This is the most amazing school I have ever had the privilege to work for. I count myself lucky and blessed to teach our children and bond with our families, not to mention gain the amazing support and friendship of fellow staff at Sun Valley.”
- SVCS Staff Member
“This school is simply amazing! Love the teachers, administrators, and the students!”
- SVCS Parent
“The teachers and staff are friendly. My son loves this school and learns new things every day. ”
- SVCS Parent
“Great school, great people that work there I am really happy to have my kid's there.”
- SVCS Parent
Curriculum
Curriculum Framework
Sun Valley Charter School uses Beyond Textbooks (BT). BT is a curriculum online resource created by a collaborative community of teachers and district leaders to improve student achievement through implementation of proven teaching and learning frameworks. BT is used by over 100 educational partners in Arizona, California, Idaho, Wyoming and Kentucky comprised of 12,000 plus teachers and impacting over 140,000 standards. The BT framework allows for Arizona’s College and Career Ready Standards (AZCCRS) to be paced out throughout the year, making sure all Essential Standards are covered before state testing.
Language Arts
A strong emphasis is place on strong foundational skills in literacy. AZCCRS for English Language Arts includes Reading Foundational Skills, Comprehending Literary Text, Comprehending Informational Text, Writing, Listening and Speaking, and Language. Sun Valley Charter School uses the Spalding Method, a total language arts program, in which all teachers are certified. Spalding integrates direct instruction in listening, speaking, spelling, writing, and reading. There is also an emphasis on grammar, vocabulary, fluency, composition, oral communication, and dictation. Multiple opportunities are provided for students to apply Language Arts skills in which to foster critical thinking.
Mathematics
Mastery and practical application of mathematical principles is built into the Beyond Textbooks math curriculum. The goal is for students to have a solid understanding and awareness that mathematical problems have absolute answers and that precision and accuracy are required. BT incorporates components for reteaching and enriching math standards. Daily Math Skills is used to promote fluency, as there is an emphasis on the mastery of basic facts. This is imperative for accuracy and speed in solving more complex mathematical problems.
Social Studies
Sun Valley Charter School utilizes Harcourt social studies materials. The aim is to provide students with learning opportunities to develop and use knowledge about one’s community, nation and world, apply inquiry process to the past and present and cultivate collaboration in decision-making and problem-solving. 
Science
Sun Valley Charter School utilizes Harcourt Arizona Edition for science instruction. The approach to science is through inquiry in which students are encouraged to ask questions about the world around them and investigate through hands on learning. The curriculum includes application of scientific principles in the areas of physics, chemistry, life science and earth and spaces science. Students use the five steps of inquiry approach and are required to participate in the annual science fair. 
Leadership
Building Everyday Leadership in All Kids in the curriculum used to promote attitudes and actions for respect and success. All lessons are taught with grade level appropriate and meaningful activities and discussions. All lessons are geared to promote positive changes in leadership skills and self-confidence. 
Special Area Classes
Students are provided the opportunity to participate in special area classes that promotes the building of mind and body. Classes include: Physical Education, Fine Arts (music/art), Technology, Library, and Character Education.
Intervention
Voyager Passport and Voyager Journeys is an intervention Language Arts program designed for students identified as needing additional instructional time to increase foundational skills. Both programs focus on the five components of reading. Voyager VMath is an intervention Math program also designed for students needing additional instructional to build foundational skills in Math. Voyager’s intervention programs are taught using explicit and direct instruction. Each lesson incorporates visual models, conceptual understanding, problem solving, and fluency practice.
School Adopted Technology Resources
IXL Reading and Math
Accelerated Reader
Scholastic News Magazines Interactive
BrainPOP and BrainPOP Jr.
Sun Valley Charter School
Tanae Morrison, Ed.D. - Executive Director
Tel (602) 692-4914
Fax (602) 276-6298
Our Mission
About
Family Link
Curriculum
Make a Payment
Parent Involvement
Employment
Español
 Like us on Facebook
© 2017 Sun Valley Charter School. Website by 
Integrated
.