#STHOPEwearethefuture
Select Language
French
Spanish
Login
Email
: 
Password
: 
Create Account
or Create Account
St HOPE Leadership Academy Charter School
Site Navigation
Home
About Us
Welcome
Career Opportunities
Staff / Faculty Directory
Faculty Handbook
Board of Directors
Photo Albums
Email Lists
Directions
Charter
Financials
Annual Report
Contact Us
Academics
Core Curriculum
Contact a Teacher
Support Services
Results
Admissions
Student Application
Request Info
Student Life
Uniform Information
Clubs & Activities
Athletics
Event Photos
Meal Application
Student Handbook
												Welcome									
St. HOPE Leadership Academy Charter School (SHLA) is a high school-preparatory public charter school in New York City.  The school opened in the fall of 2008 with grades 5 through 7, and currently serves scholars in grades 5 through 8.  SHLA provides a rigorous standards-based college preparatory curriculum; intensive interventions for scholars who are performing below grade level; a defined character development program; and extensive leadership development and community service opportunities in an ordered, structured, and disciplined learning environment. SHLA features an extended school day and school year.
Core Values
At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we believe character (the ability to work hard, focus, and do the right thing) is a precursor to academic achievement.  Furthermore, we believe a person of strong character seeks to embody his or her core values in everything he or she does. At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, every member of the school community (administration, faculty, scholars, and parents) strives to realize the core values of HARLEM:
Honor  
At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we honor each other, our school, our families, our community, and ourselves.  We model this by treating ourselves and others with respect and courtesy.  From maintaining a neat and tidy appearance to recognizing and honoring the outstanding deeds of others, we seek to be true to ourselves and act with integrity even in trying situations.  
Absolute Determination  
Despite life’s challenges, we are determined to persevere through the most difficult circumstances. We work to realize our potential by setting goals for ourselves to which we are held accountable.  This commitment means we are neither too proud to ask for help nor too busy to offer it. Together we work toward individual and collective goals, and we are not deterred by obstacles.  At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we believe in each other and encourage each other to reach ever higher.  
Responsibility  
Working for positive change in both our environment and ourselves every single day is central to life at St. HOPE Leadership Academy.  We take responsibility for our learning, for our actions, and for ensuring that our classrooms are places that support everyone’s learning and success. At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we also assign ourselves the responsibility of helping others.  
Leadership  
Sustainable leadership is a resource that must continue to be developed. Therefore, this goal is at the core of our mission. We believe that one is never too young or too old to become a civic leader and an agent of change through community involvement and service. At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we know we have the power to transform and improve our communities for the better and have the obligation to do so.
Excellence  
At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we are dedicated to achieving excellence in both our personal and school lives. Our goal as a community is to make excellence a habit. In thought, word and deed, we continue to challenge ourselves to move ever forward.
Mission  
At St. HOPE Leadership Academy, we are committed to educating self-motivated, productive, and critically thinking leaders who are prepared to succeed in a college preparatory high school, committed to serving others, and passionate about lifelong learning. As such, we regularly reflect on our behavior, attitudes, work habits, and performance to track our progress and keep them aligned with our mission
				222 West 134th Street
				New York, NY 10030
				Phone: (212) 283-1204
				Fax: (212) 283-1207			
© St Hope Leadership
Academy Charter School
info@sthopeharlem.org
			Follow Us			
Like us on Facebook!
Instagram!!
powered by Educational Networks
Original text
Contribute a better translation