#STHOPEwearethefuture
Select Language
French
Spanish
Login
Email
: 
Password
: 
Create Account
or Create Account
St HOPE Leadership Academy Charter School
Site Navigation
Home
About Us
Welcome
Career Opportunities
Staff / Faculty Directory
Faculty Handbook
Board of Directors
Photo Albums
Email Lists
Directions
Charter
Financials
Annual Report
Contact Us
Academics
Core Curriculum
Contact a Teacher
Support Services
Results
Admissions
Student Application
Request Info
Student Life
Uniform Information
Clubs & Activities
Athletics
Event Photos
Meal Application
Student Handbook
												Support Services									
																						Home																			
Staff
														Special Education
St. HOPE Leadership Academy provides a continuum of special educations services for scholars with Individualized Education Programs (IEPs). These services consist of Special Education Teacher Support Services (SETSS), Integrated Collaborative Teaching (CTT), and related services.
Special Education Teacher Support Services (SETSS)
SETSS provides resource support to scholars and consultative support to their classroom teachers. Scholars receive individual and/or small group interventions inside and outside of their classroom to ensure proper access to SHLA's general curriculum. Learning specialist also assist teachers in modifying the curriculum for scholars with special needs.
Integrated Collaborative Teaching (ICT)
ICT is an approach in which two teachers, one learning specialist and one content specialist, work together to teach all students in an inclusive classroom environment. Scholars in this program benefit from individual and small group instruction with remediation integrated throughout the day in all content areas.
Related Services
SHLA provides related services that have been recommended by the IEP Team as additional support the child needs in order to be able to benefit from his/her special program. Related services include counseling, speech therapy, and occupational therapy. Services are provided in small group and individual sessions.
The Learning Center
The Learning Center is a location where targeted scholars work individually or in cooperative group to develop reading and math skills.  The Learning Center is also open to all scholars at various time during the day to browse books for pleasure or research, and study quietly.
				222 West 134th Street
				New York, NY 10030
				Phone: (212) 283-1204
				Fax: (212) 283-1207			
© St Hope Leadership
Academy Charter School
info@sthopeharlem.org
			Follow Us			
Like us on Facebook!
Instagram!!
powered by Educational Networks
Original text
Contribute a better translation