ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
Middle School Educational Travel
Educational travel opportunities are made available to St. Croix Prep students.  Educational travel destinations are based on the history, literature and art curriculum covered by the individual grades.
Washington D.C.
All 8th grade students have the opportunity to participate in a summer trip to Washington D.C. where they visited the Washington Monument, the War Memorials (Korean, Vietnam, WWII), the National Cathedral, the National Zoo (Panda Exhibit), Jefferson Memorial, Lincoln Memorial, FDR Memorial, the Smithsonian (American Indian Museum, National Air & Space Museum, Natural History Museum, National Gallery of Art), Corcoran Gallery of Art, The Holocaust Museum, Arlington National Cemetery (Kennedy gravesites, Wreath Laying Ceremony at Tomb of the Unknowns, Challenger Memorial), Mount Vernon, Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial and, of course, Capitol Hill (Capitol, Supreme Court, and the Library of Congress).
2016 Travel Dates: June 6 – 9.
For general information about Brightspark Travel visit their website at 
www.brightsparktravel.com
For a sample itinerary from a Washington D.C. trip, click 
here.
WolfRidge
Wolf Ridge is a place where minds open to discover the joy and wonder of our natural world. It offers opportunities for building leadership, character and academics through the collaborative team challenges, as well as conquering personal fears through the fun adventure activities. Wolf Ridge is a school aligned with the Minnesota Academic Standards and is designed to enhance what happens in the classroom. Class subjects include cultural history, environmental science, personal growth, team building and outdoor recreation.
The trip is offered to students 4th through 7th grade.  Students will take different classes each year and so it is possible to go all three years and never take the same class twice (see trip curriculum on website). Due to the popularity of rock climbing and the adventure ropes classes, they tend to be repeated.
Fifth through 12th grade school students who have gone on the Wolf Ridge trip before,
may apply to be camp counselor leaders. If they have attended the trip before, 8th through 12th grade students interested in being a camp counselor, may apply to get a scholarship for half off the trip price for this leadership opportunity. To download the trip application please click here.
SCRIP for Educational Travel
St. Croix Prep students have two opportunities to take part in educational travel – Washington D.C. and Italy.  SCPA encourages all students to participate, however we realize the cost of travel may seem high to some families.  To help with the cost, half of the rebates earned when purchasing Scrip cards will be applied to a students educational travel account. For example:
In one year, if you purchased gift cards for:
Cub Foods (weekly for a family of 4) – $75/week for a year with 4% rebate = $78 ($78 to SCPA)
Kwik Trip (weekly gas fill) – $75/week for a year with 4% rebate = $78 ($78 to SCPA)
Chipotle (weekly lunch) – $10/week for a year with 9% rebate = $24 ($24 to SCPA)
Amount to your Educational Travel Account – $180
For the June 2014 Washington D. C. trip we had a family that covered the cost of the trip from rebates through the Scrip program!
Middle School
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Calendars
Activities & Events Calendar
2017-2018 Full Year Calendar
Food Services
Middle School
Attendance Line
651-395-5992
Please call by 9:00 am
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources