ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
Student Organizations
Student Council
The Student Council provides a democratic forum where students can address school-related topics. It maintains communication among students, faculty, and administration and plans, conducts, and oversees social functions and community matters that concern students. Student Council has been responsible for coordinating events such as Homecoming, Prom and various school dances and activities throughout the year.  The council is made up of elected members from each grade. The Student Council is an Advisory Board member on the St. Croix Prep School Board. Officers and members also serve on various community committees, school committees and task forces.
National Honor Society
National Honor Society recognizes outstanding junior and seniors who have demonstrated excellence in the areas of scholarship, leadership, service and character.  At St. Croix Prep, NHS students embody the school’s mission of character, leadership and academics, serving as role models by finding ways to inspire a sense of integrity and citizenship in their peers.  Every year, National Honor Society spearheads multiple community outreach initiatives and coordinates the upper school community service day.
National Junior Classical League
Formed in 1936, the National Junior Classical League (NJCL) is an organization of junior and senior high school students sponsored by the American Classical League.  Composed of local and state/provincial chapters across the United States, Canada, and Australia, it is the largest Classical organization in the world today with over 50,000 members.   Its purpose is to encourage an interest in and an appreciation of the language, literature and culture of ancient Greece and Rome and to impart an understanding of the debt of our own culture to that of Classical antiquity.
Upper School
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
College Counseling
2018 Graduation Events
Transcript Request
Calendars
Activities & Events Calendar
2017-2018 Full Year Calendar
Food Services
Upper School
Attendance Line
651-395-5993
Please call by 9:00 am
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources