ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
Lower School Curriculum (Grades K-4)
St. Croix Prep Lower School uses the Core Knowledge Sequence, a content-rich, research-based sequence associated with increased academic achievement in schools nationwide.
The Lower School Core Knowledge Sequence, originated by E. D. Hirsch, is carefully crafted to build a solid foundation to first support the middle school logic-based questioning years and then a student’s high school years of succinctly expressing ideas orally and in writing.
This intentional K-12 scope and sequence is unique for a public school, but we believe essential to prepare students for a successful college or other post-secondary educational experience, as well as to develop the leaders needed in the coming generation.
All Lower School homerooms have a licensed teacher and an experienced education assistant. The academic day is built around Reading, Language Arts, Social Studies/History/Geography, Science, Art, Music and Physical Education. Students are placed into differentiated, flexible groupings by skill level for Reading and Math to meet their individual needs.
Assessments & Performance
Our assessment of where students are by the end of each quarter drives our instruction in Common Core Standards, Minnesota Standards and the Core Knowledge Sequence. Excellent test scores reflect our quality teaching and learning.
Based on the results of quarterly screening, diagnostic assessments and teacher recommendations, students receive multi-tiered support that includes extra challenge for students who are ready and research-based interventions to assist students who are struggling.
Curriculum
To ensure cohesive and mission-driven instruction is delivered to students, Lower School teachers are provided with daily shared grade-alike team preparation/planning/collaboration times. Teams meet by grade level, Lower School, Professional Learning Community (PLC), Special Education and General/Special Education teams either weekly or bi-weekly.
Reading
Learning to read well by the end of third grade is a primary goal for every Lower School student. Imagine It! Reading and Language Arts Curriculum is utilized to teach the five key areas of Reading. Students begin instruction in these key areas in Kindergarten so they understand not just how to read and write, but the meaning and purpose of what they are learning.
Five Key Areas of Reading:
Phonemic Awareness
Systematic, Explicit Phonics
Fluency
Vocabulary
Comprehension
Elementary students at St. Croix Preparatory Academy are assessed in their reading skills utilizing the Strategic Teaching and Evaluation of Progress (STEP) assessment. STEP was created by the University of Chicago Urban Education Institute and evaluates key elements of literacy development for students from kindergarten through third grade, including: phonemic awareness, letter/word knowledge, reading accuracy and use of reading strategies, fluency and reading rate, literal and inferential comprehension.
MN Statute 1208.12 states that a school district must adopt a local literacy plan to have every child reading at or above grade level no later than the end of third grade. This legislation is commonly referred to as “Reading Well by Third.” Click here for a copy of 
St. Croix Prep’s 2016-2017 Reading well by Third Grade: Local Literacy Plan
. Click here for 
Parent Resources related to Reading Well by Third Grade Plan
.
Click here for more information on 
Imagine It! Reading
.
Math
Lower School utilizes Saxon Math for its math curriculum. It is one of the two main math curriculums primarily utilized by classical and college preparatory charter schools (the other is Singapore math). In addition, the approach taken by Saxon fits very well with how St. Croix Prep defines ‘classical education’ and the trivium (as explained in 
SCPA Classical Education
). Saxon’s instructional methods coincide with the grammar stage. A strong emphasis is placed on the development of knowledge of basic facts and practice for automaticity in mathematical thinking. For more information, go to 
Saxon Publishers
.
Science
SCPA uses Pearson Interactive Science for 2nd through sixth grades. Interactive Science allows students to use the textbook as a personal learning tool. Students are able to highlight, add notes to the margins, and answer questions in their personal textbook. Interactive Science has online support tools for students, including an online version of their textbook.
FOSS is a research-based science curriculum utilized to supplement Pearson Interactive. It was originally developed at the Lawrence Hall of Science, University of California at Berkeley. The FOSS project began over 20 years ago during a time of growing concern that our nation was not providing young students with an adequate science education. The FOSS program materials are designed to meet the challenge of providing meaningful science education for all students and to prepare them for life in the 21st century.
Paideia Seminars
St. Croix Prep has integrated across all grades and content areas a unique teaching method called Paideia Seminars to challenge students to deeper, more critical thinking through an intellectual dialogue. The Seminars are a powerful learning tool creating more meaningful connections to the curriculum and requiring students to be independent thinkers.
Character & Leadership
The Golden Rule of “Treating one another as we would like to be treated” is found in nearly every culture in the world. The Golden Rule is one of our Core Knowledge Sayings and Phrases that provide the cornerstone of our character, leadership and discipline practice. Each month of the school year, we explore one of seven character traits: respect, responsibility, honesty, self-control, perseverance, courage, compassion and service. We celebrate student success in practicing these character traits by giving “Golden Tickets”. Student may even be selected to join Ms. Karetov for a monthly “Golden Ticket Breakfast”.
Art/Music/Physical Education
Curriculum maps reflect our Core Knowledge Sequence integration between our three specialist instructional areas and general education. We have highly qualified, licensed teachers for each of these positions.
What Every (Kindergarten), (First), (Second), (Third), (Fourth) Grader Needs to Know
Parents are encouraged to read What Every (Kindergarten), (First), (Second), (Third), (Fourth) Grader Needs to Know.
Click here or more information on 
Core Knowledge
.
Lower School
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Calendars
Activities & Events Calendar
2017-2018 Full Year Calendar
Food Services
Lower School
Attendance Line
651-395-5991
Please call by 9:00 am
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources