Two Dimensions Preparatory Academy
Skip to main content
Mobile Menu
Our District
Message from the Director
School History
Mission and Vision
Board of Directors
District Reporting
Photo Album
Staff Directory
Directions
Links
Video Gallery
Admissions
Enrollment Process
Admission Requirement
Lottery Information
Lottery Application
Parents
Academic Calendar
Attendance Policy
Dress Code
School Supply List
Meal Menu
Veterans
Corsicana
Vickery
Parent/Student Handbook
Human Resources
Teacher Qualifications
Paraprofessional Qualifications
Benefits
Job Postings
Apply
Staff Handbook
Forms
Contact Us
District Administrators
Campus Administrators
Teacher/Staff Directory
Request More Information
Campus Locations
 Google+
 Facebook
 Twitter
Search
Admissions
			 » Admission Requirement			
Admission Requirement
Admission Requirement
Enrollment Packet
The District requires that each enrollment packet be completed in its entirety. Along with submitting the completed enrollment packet, applicants must submit the original social security card, child identification (birth certificate), current immunization card, and previous school records. The District also requires that the person eligible to enroll the student provide proof of residency in the district, which for district purposes is a current lease agreement, closing contract on a home and a letter from their builder or realtor with an estimated closing date, or a current utility bill (gas, light, or water) in the parent or guardian's name (Multi-Family Residence-Affidavit). The parent/guardian is also required to provide proof of identification (driver’s license or an identification card) at the time of enrollment. The district may withdraw any student who ceases to be a resident. Enrollment packets are not allowed to leave the building and parents must bring in all required documents at the time of enrollment.
Social Security
TDPACS requires a social security number for each student. Should the parents or guardians not make this number available due to foreign status; a state student identification number is assigned to the student for record identification.
Child's Identity
Texas Education Code requires a parent or legal guardian to present within 30 days of a child's enrollment, proof of the child's identity, such as birth certificate or any other acceptable document) to the district. Only originals are accepted. If the district does not receive complete immunization records or proof that immunizations have begun within 30 days of enrollment, then the district may withdraw the student. If this information is not provided or if a child is enrolled under a name other than the child’s name as it appears in the identifying document or records, the district is required to notify Texas Department of Public Safety Missing Children and Missing Persons Information Clearinghouse at (800) 346-3243.
Immunization Requirements
Texas law requires immunization for all students enrolled in school. An affidavit must be on file at the school for students who are exempt from immunization for religious reasons. A student enrolling in TDPACS for the first time must present satisfactory evidence of meeting the following immunizations:
Polio: 3 or more doses of Polio vaccines, including at least one (1) dose since the fourth birthday.
Diphtheria/Tetanus/Pertussis (DTP): 4 or more doses of DTP/DTTD. One dose must have been received since their fourth (4th) birthday and one (1) dose within the last ten (10) years.
Measles: (1) dose of measles vaccine on or after the first birthday or provide a physician verified history of measles illness or serologic proof of immunity to measles and one (1) additional dose measles vaccine at the age of five.
Rubella: one (1) dose of Rubella vaccine on or after the first birthday or provide serologic proof of immunity to Rubella.
Mumps: one (1) dose of mumps vaccine on or after the first birthday.
Haemophilus Influenza Type B (Hib): one (1) dose of Hib conjugate vaccine administered on or after fifteen (15) months of age: a primary series and booster completed at twelve (12) months of age; one (1) one (1) dose of Hib polysaccharide vaccine (HibPV) administered after twenty-four (24) months of age.
Hepatitis B: three (3) doses of vaccine.
Varicella: one (1) dose on or after the first birthday.
PPD-Mantoux: TB Skin Test within current school year.
Admission Policies
									Admission Requirement								
Enrollment Process
Enrollment Packet
Lottery Information
Lottery Application
Pre-school 3 Admission
Residency Verification
Staff
Two Dimensions Preparatory Academy12121 Veterans Memorial Drive, Houston, TX 77067
Phone:(281) 227-4700
Veterans Campus
Corsicana Campus
Vickery Campus
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
Select Language
​
▼
Original text
Contribute a better translation