×
powered by
Calendar
 | 
Contact Us
Toggle main menu visibility 
Home
+Our Schools
Afton Oaks
Granbury
Hays County
Inspire Academies 
Legacy Ranch
Meridell
Rockdale
Williams House
+District Info
About Us
Administration
Governing Board
News and Events
Records
+Programs
Departments
Business Services
Our Plan
Employment
John H. Wood Jr. Charter District
To increase the capacity for human greatness!
Parent Links
A Parent's Guide to the STAAR ELL Progress Measure - English
A Parent's Guide to the STAAR ELL Progress Measure - Español
Contact Us
Immunizations
NCLB Parental Involvement
Our Plan
Registration
School-Parent Compact
Special Education Operating Guidelines
TEA Graduation Toolkit
TEA Graduation Toolkit - Español
Texas College & Career
TX Transition & Employment Guide - English
TX Transition & Employment Guide - Español
Student Links
Our Schools
Purpose Games
Student Web Page
Texas College & Career
Texas Reality Check
Employee Links
Web Mail
Public Links
2012-2013 Federal Report Cards
2012-2013 HQ Teacher's Report
2012-2013 Self-Eval Comm. Involvement
2013-2014 Federal Report Cards
2014-2015 Federal Report Cards
2016-2017 CASE Ratings Selections and Reporting 
AEA Accountability 2014
Campus TEA 2014 Accountability Summary
Departments
District Finances
E-Rate Funding Year 2017
Governing Board
Helpful Links
HQT Report 2013-2014 - Afton Oaks
HQT Report 2013-2014 - District
HQT Report 2013-2014 - Granbury
HQT Report 2013-2014 - Hays County
HQT Report 2013-2014 - Rockdale
HQT Report 2013-2014 -San Marcos
Local Wellness Policy
Network Policies
News & Events
TAP Report 2012-2013 - Campus
TAP Report 2012-2013 - District
TAP Report 2013-2014 - Campus
TAP Report 2013-2014 - District
Our governing board
A six member board of trustees currently governs our charter district. The board is selected pursuant to the bylaws of the charter district and has the authority to make decisions, appoint the superintendent, and significantly influence operations. The board has the primary accountability for the fiscal affairs of the charter district.
Olin Tunnell
                                                                                                                      		President 
Olin Tunnell currently serves as board president. He has served on the board since 2002. Rev. Tunnell grew up in north Texas and graduated from Texas Wesleyan University in Ft. Worth with a bachelor of arts degree in speech and education. He went on to earn a master of divinity degree from the Cambler School of Theology at Emory University in Atlanta. Rev. Tunnell served Methodist parishes in Texas and Alaska and also served as chaplain in a children's home. While in college, Rev. Tunnell was active in the local theater group and was a professional actor in several plays. He also tried his hand at stand-up comedy. He taught English and drama at Edgewood School District in San Antonio, led a divorce recovery group for many years, participated in the Trinity University Upward Bound program, and led a pre-release prison group as a social worker. He is currently retired and enjoys driving his RV with his wife Jessica and dog Nilo (Olin spelled backwards) and visiting their grandchildren in Colorado.
Josie  Arredondo-Holden
                                                                                                                      		Vice President  
Josie Arredondo-Holden currently serves as board vice president and has been on the board since 2002. She is a Licensed Specialist in School Psychology (LSSP) and a practicing psychologist who consults with San Antonio Independent School District. Dr. Arrendondo-Holden was born in San Antonio and attended Highland High School. She received her bachelor of arts degree from Trinity University in 1973, and received a full Danforth Fellowship to do graduate work at the University of Denver. Dr. Josie, as she is affectionately known, completed her master of arts in 1975, and her doctor of philosophy in child clinical psychology in 1978. Dr. Josie has been a clinical and school psychologist for over 30 years. She served as a school psychologist in the Edgewood school district for 13 years and in the San Antonio Independent School District as a consulting school psychologist for 20 years. She has also maintained a private practice since 1981, and worked with the Casey Family Program and the House of Neighborly Service. She served on the board for the Coalition for Children, Youth, and Families.
Carmen  Balderas
                                                                                                                      		Secretary 
Carmen Balderas is currently board secretary and has served on the board since 2007. Ms. Balderas attended the University of Texas at San Antonio and received a bachelor of arts degree. She also has a master of social work from Our Lady of the Lake University in San Antonio. She has worked as a counselor for at-risk youth and families in the Southwest, Somerset, and San Antonio school districts. She has also worked for Child Protective Services and the Income Assistance Program. She is currently an Employee Assistance Program counselor for CompPsych EAP, a private firm. Ms. Balderas has been a member of the National Association of Social Workers for 25 years.
G. Keith Cathey
                                                                                                                      		Member 
Keith Cathey has been a board member since 2008. Dr. Cathey attended Texas Tech University in Lubbock and graduated from the University of Texas Dental Branch at Houston in 1975, with a doctor of dental surgery degree. Dr. Cathey has had a private dental practice in San Antonio his entire working life. His interests are reading, biking, hiking, and gardening.
Raymond  Kresha
                                                                                                                      		Member 
Raymond Kresha currently serves as a board member and has been on the board since 2008. Mr. Kresha attended St. Joseph's college before transferring to the University of Nebraska at Lincoln where he earned a bachelor of arts degree in English and journalism in 1972. He attended Abilene Christian University and picked up his teaching credentials in English and Journalism. Ray earned his master of education degree in guidance and counseling from Texas State University in 1990, and is a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) in Texas. Mr. Kresha taught English and journalism for three years, worked 10 years as a broadcast journalist in radio and TV, and five years in marketing. He currently works as a child psychotherapist at Laurel Ridge Psychiatric Hospital in San Antonio. Mr. Kresha has served on a number of boards including the Grand Island United Way, Abilene Unity Church, the South Texas Counseling Association, and the Unity Church of Wimberley, Texas. He has been married to his wife Mary for 42 years, and they have two adult children, four grandchildren, and were foster parents for sexually abused girls for 10 years. His interests include creating videos, developing internet/web sites, remodeling, and writing.
Debra Harkiewicz
                                                                                                                      		Member 
Debra Harkiewicz joined the board in July 2014. Mrs. Harkiewicz attended The University of Texas in San Antonio and graduated with a bachelor's of arts degree in architecture in 1992. She achieved a masters of military science from The Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama. Debra is also a graduate of Air War College and Air Command and Staff College. She has worked for the USAF Civil Engineering organization for 23 years practicing facility design, construction, operations, maintenance, and asset management. Debra holds certifications in Lean Six Sigma and facility management. Mrs. Harkiewicz has served two consecutive terms as a Lackland ISD school board trustee. She currently serves as pastoral council vice-chair for The Shrine of St Padre Pio in San Antonio.
Board Meeting
Agendas
Please feel free to view our board agenda below.
November 14, 2017
Corporate Offices
10325 Bandera Road, San Antonio, Texas 78250
 (210) 638.5000
						Copyright ©2017 | Site designed and maintained by 
School Webmasters
Original text
Contribute a better translation