Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/school/achievement-first-hartford-high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2017/11/2020_BROCHURE_AFHARTFORDHIGH.PDF
Achievement First Hartford 
High School’s Mission
The mission of Achievement First Hartford High 
School, a college-preparatory public charter 
school in Hartford, Connecticut, is to provide 
students from historically underserved
communities with a top-quality education to
prepare them for the rigor of college work and help 
them flourish on college campuses. AF Hartford 
High’s approach includes a rigorous, college-
preparatory course of study, tutoring, intensive 
college counseling, and robust athletic and
elective programs.

For more information about Achievement First, 
please visit achievementfirst.org.

School Leader
Laneka Thomas is the principal of AF Hartford 
High School. Before discovering her passion for 
teaching at AF Hartford High School, Laneka 
spent five years working with the Connecticut 
state legislature as a policy analyst. She then 
worked as a teacher at AF Hartford High for five 
years before spending the last two years at AF 
Hartford Summit Middle as a dean of students 
and principal-in-residence. Laneka is a lifelong 
Hartford resident and continues to live, work, 
play, and operate a small business in the city 
where she raises her three daughters. Laneka 
earned a bachelor’s degree in political science 
at the University of Chicago and received her 
doctorate from the University of Connecticut, 
School of Law.

Applying for Admission to AF 
Hartford High School

Students from Jumoke and AF Hartford Summit 
Middle School who complete the application 
process will be accepted into Achievement First 
Hartford High School. Application materials are 
due January 31, 2021. There are no entrance 
exams or application fees.

For more information or to obtain an 
application, please contact Recruitment 
Coordinator Troy Jackson, at 860-695-6844 
or TroyJackson@achievementfirst.org.

ACHIEVEMENT FIRST  
HARTFORD HIGH

The College-Prep Experience
Achievement First Hartford High School’s approach 
includes an extended school day and year, a 
rigorous, college-preparatory course of study, SAT 
preparation, intensive college counseling, and a 
commitment to preparing our students for the 
rigor of college work in a supportive academic 
environment, as well as through athletics and 
elective programs. The programming at AF Hartford 
High School is centered on the tenets of a rigorous, 
liberal arts education. Our instructional framework 
includes learning through discussion, a heavy 
focus on writing, and the development of key 
non-cognitive skills.

Fostering Curiosity 
& Independence
We want all students to cultivate a passion for 
independent thought and discovery, as well as 
to gain the skills needed to communicate those 
ideas for maximum impact. That’s why our school 
offers several courses that center writing and 
public speaking, including:

• Seminar discussions in all disciplines 
• Rigorous composition courses in grades 9-12 
• Theater class in grade nine 
• Bi-weekly, student-led community meetings 

SAT AVERAGES

1000

989

952

888

800

600

400

200

0

AF Hartford 
High School 
(Class of 2020)

Area Magnet 
High Schools

Area District 
High Schools

Co-curricular Enrichment

Achievement First Hartford High values athletics, 
the arts, and extracurriculars. Our program is 
growing each year, and the following opportunities 
will be offered in the 2019-20 school year:

•  Band/Drumline
• Boys’ and Girls’ Basketball
• Chess Club
• Cheerleading

• Dance
• Fencing
• Football
• Girls’ Volleyball

Focused Attention on 
College Readiness

Achievement First Hartford High exists to 
allow students to meet their full potential. Our 
curriculum is designed to push students to meet 
the rigors of college classes, and to develop 
the non-academic skills needed to realize their 
dreams, and to become leaders in our community. 
Our school provides services including:

• College readiness courses
• Reading and math interventions in grades 9 and 10
• Advisory program
• Office hours
•  Math and critical reading SAT preparation courses 

and group counseling

• Summer enrichment programs
• College counseling
• Alumni support



