Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/school/achievement-first-east-brooklyn-high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2017/11/AFEBHS_BROCHURE19-1.PDF
Achievement First

East Brooklyn High School

MMXVI

Achievement First East Brooklyn 
High School Mission

The mission of Achievement First East Brooklyn 
High School is to provide a complete liberal arts 
education in a structured and supportive academic 
environment.

We believe that the Achievement First East 
Brooklyn High School experience helps our 
scholars develop the academic and character skills 
to graduate from college and serve as the next 
generation of leaders in our community.

For more information about Achievement First, 
please visit achievementfirst.org.

School Leader  

Ms. Silver joined Achievement First as 
the founding Director of Operations at 
Achievement First Brooklyn High in 2009. 
She became that school’s Dean of College in 
2013 and revolutionized the college access 
process, facilitating student matriculation to 
many impressive schools including Stanford 
University, Dartmouth College, and Georgetown 
University. Here at AF East Brooklyn High, 
Ms. Silver has used her knowledge about the 
college application process and her passion 
for student identity development to create 
a program that cultivates college readiness 
starting at the ninth grade level.

Applying for Admission  
to Achievement First 
East Brooklyn High School

Students from Achievement First Brownsville 
Middle who complete the application 
process will be accepted into Achievement 
First East Brooklyn High. Students from 
other schools may also apply. There are no 
entrance exams or fees. 

Please email 
eastbrooklynhs@achievementfirst.org  
for more information.

301 Vermont Street, Brooklyn, NY 11207

347.471.2650

The College-Prep Experience

Achievement First is committed to ensuring 
that all of our students have the skills to 
graduate from high school, excel in college, 
and pursue their boldest ambitions. Toward 
these critical ends, Achievement First high 
schools offer a prep school academic 
approach in a public charter school setting. 
The school’s rigorous course of study will 
develop essential academic skills, including 
the ability to:

• Read carefully
• Think analytically
• Communicate effectively

Achievement First East Brooklyn High 
provides a supportive environment where 
all students have a personal advisory and 
develop close relationships with classmates 
and teachers. Our school community 
positively affirms student identity and values 
achievement and hard work.

Co-Curricular Programs For 
Well-Rounded Students

Achievement First East Brooklyn High will help 
students pursue their co-curricular interests 
through an expanding athletic and arts program. 
Programs offered may include: 

Anime Club
Book Club
Boys' Basketball
Cheerleading Team
DIY Club
Flag Football
Gaming Club
Girls' Basketball
Kings Mentorship Program

Majorette Team
Media Club
Natural Hair Club
SHINE Mentorship Program
Student Government 
    Association
Track Team
Yoga & Wellness Club

Strong School Culture & 
Relationships That Matter

Our small-school environment ensures that we're 
able to tailor support and opportunities to the 
need of each student. Students receive regular 
individualized, one-on-one academic advising 
from our top faculty in selecting courses, summer 
program opportunities, and target colleges.

Focused Attention                         
On College Readiness

Our program is designed to help develop the 
academic foundation and habits of mind students 
need to succeed at top colleges and universities.

• College-like seminar courses
• Shared inquiry
• Frequent writing
• A.P. courses for college credit

One-hundred percent of students will be 
accepted into four-year colleges. This is the urgent 
mission of Achievement First East Brooklyn High 
School. Our academic curriculum is designed to 
push students to meet the rigor of college-level 
coursework head-on, and our curriculum is 
designed to ensure that our students become 
empowered and thoughtful young adults who can 
lead in and contribute to our communities. We 
prepare students for college by offering:

• Goal setting and self-tracking
• Communication and presentation skills
• College trips and visits from admissions officers 
• SAT Prep
•  Summer program application and placement 

support

• Internships and career networking
• College admissions guidance



