Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/school/achievement-first-brooklyn-high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2017/11/BROCHURE_AFBHS19.PDF
A Unique Mission
The mission of Achievement First Brooklyn 
High School is to provide a complete liberal 
arts education in a structured and supportive 
academic environment.

We believe that the Achievement First Brooklyn 
High School experience helps our scholars 
develop the academic and character skills to 
graduate from college and serve as the next 
generation of leaders in our communities.

Applying For Admission to  
AF Brooklyn High School

Prospective students must apply for 
admission. There are no entrance exams 
or fees. Admissions preference is reserved 
for current Achievement First middle school 
students and lottery wait-listed students. 

For more information, please contact us     
at 718-363-2260.

Achievement First 

brooklyn high school

The Pursuit of  
Academic Excellence
Every student at AF Brooklyn High School is on the 
path to college. Our four-year program is designed 
to build the academic foundation and habits of mind 
our students need to be accepted into and succeed 
at their best fit college or university. Our program 
includes:
• College-like seminar courses
• Shared inquiry
• Frequent writing
• AP courses for college credit

Strong School Culture & 
Relationships That Matter
AF Brooklyn High School stands apart from top prep 
schools and specialized high schools in New York 
City because of our supportive and relationship-
driven culture. Our small-school environment 
ensures that we are able to tailor support and 
opportunities to the needs of each of our students. 
Students receive regular, individualized, one-on-
one academic advising from our top faculty in 
selecting their choice of courses, summer program 
opportunities, and target colleges.

The College-Prep Experience
Achievement First is committed to ensuring that 
all of our students have the skills to graduate 
from high school, excel in college, and pursue 
their boldest ambitions. Toward these critical 
ends, Achievement First high schools offer a 
prep school academic approach in a public 
charter school setting. The school’s rigorous 
course of study will develop essential academic 
skills, including the ability to:
• Read carefully 
• Think analytically 
• Communicate effectively 

Achievement First Brooklyn High provides 
a supportive environment where all students 
have a personal advisory and develop close 
relationships with classmates and teachers. Our 
school community positively affirms student 
identity and values achievement and hard work.

Focused Attention On  
College Readiness 
AF Brooklyn High School’s College Readiness 
Team is determined to help students find the 
college that is the best fit for them. Our advisors 
each support a small group of students. Our 
close relationships with students and families 
helps us guide our students through the 
college application process and advocate on 
our students' behalf with top colleges and 
universities. College readiness and advisory 
programs at AF Brooklyn High include:
• Goal setting and self-tracking
• Communication and presentation skills
• College trips and visits from admissions officers
• SAT prep
• Summer program applications support
• Internship and career networking

Seniors are accepted to an  average of 5 colleges each

Co-Curricular Programs
AF Brooklyn High School helps students pursue 
robust co-curricular interests through an expanding 
athletics, enrichment, and performing arts program. 
Our students participate in:
Athletics
• Boys' and Girls' Soccer
• Cheerleading
• Boys' and Girls' Basketball
• Girls' Volleyball
• Track & Field

Student Groups and 
Organizations
• Band
• Brothers in Leadership
• Circle of Sisters
• Dance Company
• Hip-Hop Dance Team
• Step Team
• The Curly Code:
   A Natural Hair Club

Elective Courses
• Dance
• Music
• Speech and Debate
• Visual Arts



