Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/CONTEXTUALIZATION04B.PDF
conTexTuALiZATion 4 (set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

AbsTrAcT/summAry:
This paper scores a 4 because the writer presents accurate background information about the content 
(evidenced in the introduction), and background information about evidence is clear and blended smoothly 
into the paper. However, the writer does not hint at their interpretation in context enough to earn a five. In 
addition, background information about evidence is not always consistently smooth.

criTerion 1: FrAming
This writer clearly presents the basic frame of the argument by giving background information about the 
concept of the tragic hero. In the introductory paragraph, she writes:

The tragic hero is usually born as a noble but because of his mistakes suffers a great downfall and 
deaths of those close to him; he controls his fate. Usually this suffering leads to a suicide by the 
tragic hero or the tragic hero becomes secluded and usually ends up dying. The tragedy Antigone is 
no different; each character suffers but only one tragic hero falls from his place and suffers the most 
because of the choices he makes.

These sentences clearly lead from the general framing (“The tragic hero is...”) to the specific context of 
Antigone “The tragedy of Antigone is no different...”) in a clear and logical way.

criTerion 2: conTexT
She also provides clear and sufficient background information about evidence presented when necessary. 
One example: “After her two brothers kill each other she suffers greatly because he brother Polynices, 
‘is not to be buried’ (127).” In this example, the writer briefly contextualizes the relevant plot point 
before blending that with the direct quotation. These examples are generally appropriately incorporated 
into sentences. However, they are not always smooth. One example: “He suffers greatly when he finds 
out that his fiancé, Antigone, is going to be killed, he even tries to change Creon’s mind, something no 
on in the city dared to do, ‘Only because I know [...].’” The lack of concision in this example makes the 
incorporation awkward.
There are some nice hints at interpretation in context, although they are not common. One example: 
“Creon is also too prideful, ‘No other touchstone [...] in the practice of authority and rule’ (131). He 
considers himself higher than all the others which could possible be his biggest mistake.”
The phrase too prideful hints at the interpretation that will follow the evidence; namely, that pride (“...he 
considers himself higher than all others”) remains his “biggest mistake.”

- 1 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -



