Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/CONTEXTUALIZATION03.PDF
contextUALiZAtion 3

Analysis: History - Uganda

AbstrAct/sUmmAry:
The writer does a nice job of providing background information to the subject of the paper and to the 
specific evidence. While it isn’t particularly insightful or detailed, it’s very clear both in terms of the topics 
referenced and its incorporation in the sentence and argument. However, there are no attempts to hint at 
interpretation in context, preventing this paper from scoring a 4.

criterion 1: FrAming
The introduction does a nice job of giving background information about the subject:

As stated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights (UNDHR), “Whereas recognition of 
the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the 
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.” The purpose of the UNDHR is to outline the 
rights that all humans are entitled to.

These sentences, while not particularly full of voice, are a clear and unambiguous introduction and 
appropriate context to the subject of the paper. It states the importance of the UNDHR at the forefront in 
order to ground the position appropriately. While it is perhaps not quite sufficient (the writer could provide 
more information about the merit and importance of the UNDR in international judgment), it is enough to 
warrant a 4 in framing.

criterion 2: context
Appropriate background information is incorporated smoothly into the paragraphs. For example: “In 
Uganda, 4% of the population approve of homosexuality. If the bill is passed, that 4% will be prosecuted 
and imprisoned along with homosexuals.” This contextualization leads directly to the evidence of the 
language of Article 19 of the bill, which supports the central assertion. This gives the reader the clear 
background information he or she needs about the Uganda bill in order to understand the analysis of  
the evidence.
However, the writer does not attempt to hint at interpretation in context. In the same paragraph, the next 
two sentences read:

Article 19 of the UDHR states, “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this 
right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference…” This right is repressed by the bill, 
thus labeling it a violation of the UDHR.

If the writer were to hint at his or her further interpretation, he or she may write: “ ...that 4% will be 
prosecuted and imprisoned along with homosexuals. this prosecution violates article 19 of the UDHR, 
which states, ‘Everyone [...] without interference.’ This right to freedom is oppressed by the bill [...].  
The inclusion of the phrase in bold hints at what the author will later argue, that the language of the bill 
violates the UNDHR. 

- 1 -

essay: History - Uganda
 
 
Composition- Mr. Melvin                                                                  CHPRIDE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February 8, 2011

 

 

 

 

     Anchor Paper PBA # 6

To begin, the Anti- homosexual bill proposed in Uganda violates the Universal Declaration of Human 

 
As stated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights (UNDHR), “Whereas recognition of 

 
 
the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the 
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.” The purpose of the UNDHR is to outline the 
rights that all humans are entitled to. The proposed Anti-Homosexual bill in Uganda, which is a bill to 
eradicate homosexuals, is a violation of the UNDHR because it infringes on the freedom of expression 
of homosexuals. However, the proposed bill abides by the will of the majority of citizens in Uganda. 
Although that may be the case, the proposed bill is ultimately a violation of the UNDHR.
 
Rights because it restricts the freedom of homosexuals. In Uganda, 4% of the population approve of 
homosexuality. If the bill is passed, that 4% will be prosecuted and imprisoned along with homosexuals. 
Article 19 of the UDHR states, “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right 
includes freedom to hold opinions without interference…” This right is repressed by the bill, thus labeling 
it a violation of the UDHR. Without the Anti- homosexual bill, opponents to homosexuality have the right 
to voice their outcries against the practice while proponents for it have the right to voice their support. 
The use of the phrase, “freedom of opinion” proposes the idea that no one can be forced to have a certain 
opinion. The government or members of the majority in a society cannot compel an individual to think 
the same as them. Also, the use of the phrase “freedom of expression” reveals that people have the right to 
express themselves in a homosexual manner without fearing persecution. To conclude, the purpose of the 
bill is to eradicate the homosexual expression.
  Many proponents of the Anti-homosexuality bill claim that it does not violate the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights because the law meets the rule of the majority. In Uganda, 96% of the 
population disprove of the practice of homosexuality, therefore the government must abide by the 
democratic vote of the majority.  In article 21 of the UNDHR it states, “The will of the people shall be 
the basis of the authority of the government; this will shall be expressed in patriotic and genuine elections 
which shall be universal…” The Declaration specifies that the majority vote shall elect a government by 
the “will of the people”. The use of this phrase suggests that the will of the people is related to the majority 
vote which would be 96% of Uganda in support for the bill. The use of the phrase “genuine elections” 
reveals that if the people of Uganda vote on the Bill, it should be passed into a law. To disregard the 
vote of the majority in order to appease the acts of the minority is undemocratic. To conclude, the Anti-
Homosexuality Bill is not a violation of the UNDHR since it was proposed by the will of the people.
 
Ultimately, the proposed Anti-Homosexuality bill is a violation of the UNDHR. Although it offers 
an election by a democratic process, the subject of the Anti-Homosexual bill, which is the persecution of 
homosexuals, cannot be voted on. In article 2 of the UNDHR it states, “Everyone is entitles to all the rights 
and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind…Furthermore, no distinction 
shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country…” This 
statement reveals that the Anti-Homosexuality bill in Uganda is in fact a violation of the UNDHR because 

- 2 -

it revokes the rights of homosexuals living in Uganda. The use of the phrase “Everyone is entitled to all 
the rights and freedoms…” reveals that even if 96% of Uganda is against homosexuality, the 4% are still 
protected by this declaration. If the bill passes and the 4% are persecuted, that will render the bill/law 
as a violation of the UNDHR. Also, the use of the phrase “…no distinction shall be made on the basis 
of the political, jurisdictional, or international status of the economy…” reveals that even if Uganda is 
seeking national sovereignty, their proposed bill is still a violation of the UNDHR. To conclude, the Anti-
Homosexual bill proposed in Uganda is ultimately a violation of the UNDHR.
To conclude, the proposed Anti-Homosexual bill in Uganda, is a violation of the UNDHR because 
 
it infringes on the freedom of expression of homosexuals. However, the proposed bill abides by the will 
of the majority of citizens in Uganda. Although that may be the case, the proposed bill is ultimately a 
violation of the UNDHR.

- 3 -



