Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/CONTEXTUALIZATION06.PDF
CONTEXTUALIzATION 6

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
This paper is an exemplar of appropriate and sophisticated contextualization. In particular, the author 
does an excellent job of weaving the larger context within small details of interpretation (for example, 
referencing a larger point about socialism while examining caesuras).

CRITERION 1: FRAmING
This paper anchors firmly itself within the larger discourse of the political trends. This is particularly 
evident in the conclusion, and in the analysis of “The Second Coming,” wherein the author argues that the 
physical structure of the poem itself refers to left- and right-wing political parties:

It is even more significant, however, is that the elements of chaos are specifically on the left while     
the elements of order are specifically on the right: the right-wing left-wing system for classifying     
political positions had been in place since the French Revolution, and those with radical left-wing     
political positions included the socialists responsible for the recent Russian Revolution.

(This assumed comprehensive knowledge of larger historical [or literary] movements is a particular 
weakness in our students’ PBAs.)
In addition, the reader leaves the paper with a clear sense of the different contexts of both poems 
(imperialism; Fascism)and how they mirror each other.

CRITERION 2: CONTEXT
Background information is concise, precise, and incorporated smoothly into the sentence. For example, 
when analyzing a line in Yeats’ poem, the author writes: “...phrases such as ‘The falcon cannot hear the 
falconer’ (a reference to the diminished power of the monarchy, whose sport was falconry)...”
By putting this interesting and vital background information in a parenthetical phrase, the author adds 
weight to his assertion without interrupting the flow of the sentence.
In addition, the author does an excellent job at hinting at interpretation in context consistently throughout 
the paper. For example:

At the end of the sonnet, however, the tone of the first four lines returns with a vengeance: “Round 
the decay/Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare,/The lone and level sands stretch far away.” 
(12-14). No longer glorified, the statue loses all the powerful vitality and becomes a “decay” once 
again. And only one line after the statue openly mocks the gods, Shelley in turn openly mocks the 
statue as a “colossal (mocking the statue’s prior magnitude) wreck.”

The phrase in bold gives a preview to the writer’s interpretation (that the opening tone of the poem returns 
at the end, which signals that Shelley doesn’t think much of the kings’ permanence). This strategy colors 
the reader’s impression of the evidence selection, making for a  smoother understanding. In other words, 
I’m already scanning the direct quotation for tone, and arriving at the interpretation with my knowledge 
partially built.

- 1 -

Essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -



