Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/CONVENTIONS05.PDF
ConvenTionS 5

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

ABSTRACT/SummARy:
There are several small errors in spelling which do not affect the fluency of the paper: (“...which could 
possible be his biggest mistake”). There are no subject/verb agreement errors in the paper and only a few  
vague pronoun references (“By doing this...” “He considers himself higher than all the others...”). Comma 
errors are slightly more common (2 in the conclusion, 1 in the second body paragraph). The introduction 
contains one misplaced modifier (in addition to a comma error): “The tragic hero is usually born as a noble 
but because of his mistakes suffers a great downfall and deaths of those close to him; he controls his fate.” 
In this example, the word great modifies both downfall and deaths; in other words, “the tragic hero [...] 
suffers a great [...] deaths of those close to him.” Assuming that the writer did not intend to describe the 
deaths as great, the insertion of the article the before deaths would correct this sentence. Another example 
is below:

• 

Haemon’s tragic end seems to fit perfectly with what Aristotle would define as a tragic hero; his 
suffering leads him to die beside his bride, waiting till Creon was in sight before stabbing himself 
with his sword.

Among other errors (past tense, an extraneous phrase, and a colloquialism), this sentence contains a fairly 
egregious misplaced modifier. As written, the sentence states that Haemon’s suffering-- not Haemon 
himself-- waits for Creon and then commits suicide. The potentially interesting abstract idea of “suffering” 
committing suicide aside, the sentence should read as follows:

• 

Haemon’s tragic end fits perfectly with what Aristotle defines as a tragic hero: he suffers greatly 
and decides to die beside his bride, waiting until Creon is in sight to stab himself with his sword.
Overall, however, these mistakes are not common and this writer has a strong command of conventions. 
However, these errors do number more than the total number of pages in total, earning the paper a 5 
instead of a 6.

- 1 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -



