Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-language/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/CONVENTIONS-3-SET-3.PDF
Conventions 3 (Set 3)

Analysis: History - Sumerian Civilization
Conventions: Grammar

This paper scores a 3 in grammar because while it meets the standard for a three, due to incorrect punctuation for quotations, it cannot
score a 4. While most capitalization is correct, this scholar does capitalize “Government” inappropriately twice. All end punctuation is
correct; since there are no titles, that criteria cannot be scored. This scholar uses commas in compound sentences, after introductory
phrases, and commas in a series correctly (“Technology, government, and stable food supplies are three important indicators that prove
Sumer is a great civilization”), although quotes are not punctuated correctly consistently. In the ﬁrst body paragraph, there are no end
quotes.

Essay: History - Sumerian Civilization

Prompt: Was Sumer a civilization? Select 3 of the 7 indicators of civilizations to best
defend your thesis.
Sumeria as a Civilization

A civilization is an advanced community that includes the important seven indicators, witch is essential to
make a community a civilization. The ﬁrst place to show the meaning of a civilization was Sumer, a city state
in Mesopatamia. Sumer was a civilization. The indicators that proves Sumer was a civilization was
technology, witch made life esier, government, witch kept life in Sumeria safe and orderly, and stable food
supply, that represents how Sumerians control their food.

Technology is an important indicator that made Sumeria a civilization. A very important artifact that caused
technology was the wheel. “Wheeled carts made it much esier to move goods over long distances, witch was
esier than before when they moved around sledges. A second artifact that proves technology was a bow. A
bow is a weapon that Sumerians used in the wars that they faced. The bow helped defeat enemys far range
without having to get close to the person battle them. The bow example in technology because it helped the
army kill soldier/warriers esier. All this evidence proves technology helped make Sumeria a civilization.

Government is an important indicator that caused Sumer to become a civilization. An artifact that showed
Government was the laws of Sumeria. Government helped make laws that kept people from doing things they
were not supposed to do. Laws show government because the laws kept from doing bad things like killing
and murdering people. This kept the place safe and orderly. A second artifact that exampled in Government
was a king. “Governments have a ruler that leads the people of Sumeria” (Frey 40). This artifact represents
government because the ruler kept the people orderly and was the ruler of the army. All this evidence shows
how government made Sumar a civilization.

Stable food supply was a signiﬁcant indicator that helped Sumer become a civilization. An irrigation system
is one of the artifacts that the Sumerians left. “Sumerians built networks of canals, dams, reservoirs to
provide their crops with a regular supply of water. These things are called complex irrigation systems all
together” (Frey, 43). An irrigation system represents stable food supply because it is how they controlled
water to be able to plant crops. A second most important artifact that is in the category of stable food supply
is the plow. A plow is a tool that farmers used for turning the soil so that the ground is ready for the seeds. A
plow represents stable food supply because it is the strategy they used to plant crops for food. All this
evidence shows that stable food supplies helped make Sumer a civilization.

In conclusion, Sumer was a great civilization. Technology, government, and stable food supplies are three
important indicators that prove Sumer is a great civilization. Sumer is one of the many reasons why citys/
countries are civilizations with the help of Sumer. Sumer reﬂects on how city/countries are today. For
example, many people today still use wheels to carry good, and how they even use it as transportation. We
also have many laws and rules (basically everywhere) that keep life in countries/citys safe and orderly.
Citys/countries get most of this accomplishments from the fanaminal work of Sumer.



