Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/IDEAS08.PDF
iDeAS 8

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
In what is likely the strongest strand of the paper, this paper scores an 8 in ideas because of the sheer 
impressiveness of the original critical thought, the insightful and sophisticated analysis, and the constant 
substantiation of the position.

CRiTeRiOn 1: QUALiTY
The argument is sophisticated and insightful in the sense that it is structured on several expansive, abstract 
levels. First of all, the writer concludes that “Ozamandias,” which describes a king’s sculpture covered 
in the desert, represents the triumph of space and time over the products of mankind. Then, he concludes 
that “The Second Coming,” which describes both symbols of order and chaos and a Sphinx-like structure 
coming to life in a desert setting, represents left-wing radicals (Communists) rising to revolution over 
established order (the political conservatives in power). Then, he ties both of these separate interpretations 
and compares them to each other, concluding that both poems represent the struggle between order and 
chaos, albeit through very different forms and conclusions about who will and should triumph.
In addition, key nuances are developed into the argument. For example:

The second stanza reveals that the only hope for the restoration of order rests with the forces of cold, 
pitiless empiricism and objective science: but the description of the beast and the broken structure of 
the stanza suggest that Yeats might be more troubled less by the disease of chaos than  by the cure of 
total objectivity.

While not grammatically flawless, this selection has a sophisticated blend of two nuanced ideas: it not 
only describes the conclusion of the poem (that empiricism represents “order”) but also suggests that Yeats 
might have a preference against the inevitable “cure”—i.e., the “cure of objectivity” may be worse than the 
“disease of chaos.”
Most importantly, however, the consistent weaving of order and chaos through different abstract lenses 
( immortality, mortality, empiricism, etc.)-- via the illumination of poetic devices!-- reveals a constant 
development of rich nuance.

CRiTeRiOn 2: SUBSTAnTiATiOn
There are untold examples of compelling substantiation of the ideas; one illustrative example is in the  
paragraph that proves how the rhythm of “Ozymandis” emphasizes the fragility of man’s accomplishments. 
After analyzing several pieces of nuanced, complex evidence (the use of iambic pentameter, excess 
connectives, subordination, the overuse of end stops, and a turning point with the word “no”) for their 
contribution to the meaning of the poem, the writer wraps up the subargument in this beautiful, compelling 
conclusion:

By dragging out the pace of the passage dealing with the statue’s history and then negating the  entire 
passage with a single word, Shelley emphasizes that even the most time consuming and laborious 

- 1 -

of human achievements are ultimately undone by the infinity of time and space in what amounts to, 
geographically speaking, a blink of an eye.

This reasoning is compelling because it summarizes the paragraph’s subargument previous to this 
statement (that the passage’s pace has been dragged out, and that the “one word” negates the earlier 
message) and then offers an interpretation that incorporates key words of the original thesis into a specific, 
yet expansive conclusion: “...even the most time consuming... human achievements are ultimately undone 
by the infinity of time and space ... in the blink of an eye.”
The totality of the substantiation presented to support the author’s argument are not without flaws—in 
particular, the author seems less certain about whether or not Yeats supports the right-wing or left-wing 
political parties, and contradicts himself slightly in citing evidence (rather than simply naming that 
ambiguity) in several attempts to sound conclusive.
The paper does not address opposing arguments, but as there are no clear places where the paper would 
benefit from an opposing analysis, the score remains.  

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -

- 13 -



