Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/IDEAS02.PDF
IDeAs 2

Analysis: History - Ingredients Revolution

AbstRAct/summARy:
This paper scores a low 2. The position is the controlling idea and most ideas are accurate and reasonable. 
However, the position is not substantiated by any means, nor are there any key nuances that are introduced 
(the general low volume of ideas in this paper hampers this as well).

cRIteRIon 1: QuAlIty
Ideas and content are reasonable and illustrate accurate interpretation, although they are very simplistic and 
do not develop by any means (further articulated in substantiation).
General interpretations are accurate, but this is an extremely low bar as the only statements that can be 
analyzed for accuracy are whether or not the three leaders mentioned truly made the claims the writer 
attributes to them.  The interpretation in this paper is so low that it affects the quality of ideas overall. In 
addition, the paragraphs usually end up in a different place than the purported assertions.

cRIteRIon 2: substAntIAtIon
 While the position is the controlling idea of the paper, the position is never substantiated or proven. For 
example, in the first body paragraph the only main idea is that a revolution needs a determined leader. The 
writer does not explain why, or link the determination to any concrete idea of what a revolution contains. 
The writer then concludes the paragraph by stating, “without one, the attempt would be futile.” This 
statement stands along without any substantiation, evidence, or claim to support it. The entire first body 
paragraph is essentially a retelling of the assertion.

- 1 -

essay: History - Ingredients Revolution
Essay #1

Prompt: Lenin states that “any cook should be able to run the country.” If revolution is the stew and 
contributing factors are the ingredients, what is the recipe for revolution; namely, what are the three most 
significant contributing factors?

 
“Any cook should be able to run the country.” Lenin states that a cook could run the country in 
reference with the fact that there are only specific ingredients that could make a true revolution. In theory, 
it takes a determined leader, a faithful group of followers and one uniting cause to prepare the perfect 
revolution.
 
First off, a determined leader is needed to run a functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired the 
people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t for him and his devotion to the cause, the people would not 
have succeeded in creating the nation they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is possible to obtain 
this knowledge is the sphere of relationships of all classes and strata to the state and the government, 
the sphere of interrelations between all classes made possible by professional revolutionaries.”(V.I. 
Lenin) Lenin expresses the idea that in order to create and run a revolution, you need a professional and 
experienced leader to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the attempt would be futile.
Secondly, a faithful group of followers can take the revolution very far. A leader without followers 
 
would go nowhere. In order to be faithful to your revolution, you have to be prepared to do whatever 
it  takes to get to your common goal. “The force of peasentry is like that of the raging winds and driving 
rain… No force can stand in its way. The peasentry will tear apart all nets which bind it and hasten along 
the road to liberation.”(Mao Zedong) Mao Zedong understood as a leader of the Chinese Revoution that 
if they were to prosper, the people supporting him would have to be determined, devoted, and be willing 
to follow without doubts. Without people with true faith in the cause, there will be opposition and the 
revolution will not thrive.
 
Lastly, to do well in a revolution, you have to be united and fight for one cause. When people come 
together as one, they can easily achieve what their goal was set to be. “In order to free ourselves of 
dynastic rule, we need to unite as one people.”(Sun Yixian) Sun Yixian, the former president of China, 
states that unity is the key to a great and powerful undefeated force known as revolution. Once everyone is 
on the same page, then it is easier to get something accomplished.  Like Abraham Lincoln said “Together 
we stand. Divided we fall.”
 
revolution. With a leader to illuminate the right path, followers  to sacrifice whatever for the cause and one 
common goal you will see that the revolution will prosper. In any event, each of the revolutions discussed 
including the Chinese Revolution, the Communist Revolution in Russia and many others had these 
components. 

Altoghether, a trusting leader, trusting followers, and unity, are the key components to a excellent 

- 2 -



