Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-argument/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/IDEAS-5-SET-1.PDF
Ideas 5 (Set 1)

Analysis: History - FDR
Ideas: Quality

This paper scores a 5 for the quality of ideas presented. The factor that contributes the most to this is the acknowledgement of the
counterargument, that, “FDR denied multiple classiﬁcations of people their constitutional rights.” This scholar does not attempt to
refute this counterclaim even though it is fairly developed. This paper did not score higher because there seems to be some logic gaps
in the analytical thinking. This paper seems to equate “good for business” with “growing economy” and “increased income for
government” without explicit explanation of the causality among these things. These are complex topics, but based on the paper, these
terms seem to mean the same thing. Also in the conclusion, it seems as though this scholar thinks that the New Deal contributed to the
crash of 1929. Stronger critical thinking could have prevented some of these logical gaps.

Essay: History - FDR

Prompt: How effective was Franklin D. Roosevelt’s response to the problems of the Great
Depression?

Throughout history, great leaders have taken action to improve the well-being of citizens all over the United
States; Franklin Roosevelt was one of them. During the Great Depression many people didn’t have food
clothes or even housing and blamed it on Hoover. The suicide rate went up by 4%, and many banks closed
down. People couldn’t sell their businesses anymore and were forced to create little houses made out of scrap
parts called Hoovervilles and turned their pants pockets inside-out to make Hoover ﬂags. Once FDR was
elected he created “New Deals” that supposedly was supposed to help improve the depression but is argued
that it did help the depression. Although Roosevelt denied some Americans their rights, he was effective
because he gave jobs and helped business.

FDR’s plan was mostly affective because he granted many jobs through the AAA and the WPA and increased
income in the government. The AAA, agricultural adjustment act, and WPA, workers progress
administration, both helped with jobs for people who suffered during the Great Depression. In document D,
before FDR came into power the unemployment rate was up to 12,830,000 people, and after he came in and

proposed new deals 670,000 people were unemployed meaning when FDR was in power he decreased the
rate by 12,160,000 people. This drastic decrease helped the citizen of the United States ﬁnd a way to get their
lives back together. This also applies in document F because from 1929-1932 the economy has been losing
money constantly, but in 1933 after Roosevelt is elected the economy starts to increase by an average of 5%
every year. This increase in the economy proves that FDR is not only helping the people of the US but trying
to improve the culture overall.

FDR’s plan was somewhat ineffective because he denied multiple classiﬁcations of people their constitutional
rights. With some of the new deals created, came some newfound problems like race and gender
discrimination. In document C, it says that the TVA “forbade Negros to live in Norris” which is where they
were working on a dam. This over-extended way of discrimination because it’s been decided that African
Americans and other races should be equal. This also applies in document H because it’s said that women are
suffering in extreme poverty such as men and many wonder “What happens to them?” This gender
discrimination is uncalled for since this is after 1919, which is when the 19th amendment was passed saying
women are able to vote, giving them equality to men.

Although Roosevelt denied some Americans their rights, he was effective because he gave jobs and helped
business. If Roosevelt had opened his horizons more so that women and African Americans the depression
wouldn’t have been that much as a problem, and if he used less money for his New Deals then the economy
wouldn’t be lower than what is was at the beginning of 1929.



