Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/IDEAS04A.PDF
iDeAS 4 (Set 1)

Analysis: History - Necessary Revolution

SummARy/ABSTRACT:
There are some sophisticated and impressive ideas in this paper. Based on quality alone, this paper could 
score a five. However, a lack of opposing arguments in substantiation keeps this paper at a four.

CRiTeRioN 1—QuAliTy:
The ideas and content in this paper reveal a depth of understanding and a few nuances are introduced. One 
example of a depth of understanding  is the argument that the colonists were enslaved (rather than made 
to feel secure as extended British citizens), and that “Britain took the colonies under their control, rather 
than providing them security.” (A way to make this kernel even deeper would be to link back to Locke 
and identify why “enslavement” was a violation of a natural right.) Also, the idea that the Boston Tea 
Party served as a declaration of war because of its intent (and therefore an appropriate war-like response 
is justified) is nuanced and fairly insightful. However, while there is some nuanced thought here, the main 
argument does not hinge on the true nuance of Locke’s language. A better incorporation of this would push 
the paper to a 6 in quality.

CRiTeRioN 2—SuBSTANTiATioN:
The main, driving reason this cannot be a 5 is that there is a clear opportunity to address opposing 
arguments (and refute them) that the writer nearly completely ignores. In fact, this prompt—which 
presents two critics’ stance on the Revolution and asks the writer to pick a side—cries out for a clear 
refutation of the opposing argument. There are missed opportunities in the introduction, and in each of the 
subarguments. The introduction could present a clearer background on Hobbes’ protection theory, and then 
prove either a) that the theory is not valid in of itself (i.e. disprove that people must give up their rights 
in return for protection) or b) that the British and American relationship does not serve as an example 
of this theory (argue that the British did not offer the Americans true protection). The second option is 
particularly tantalizing here and a clear missed opportunity. (For example: “Opponents argue that the 
American Revolution was a clear break of the social contract that must exist between mother countries 
and their colonies; in return for protection, the colonists must give up certain rights for the greater good 
and therefore any revolution would be morally unjustified. In this argument, wanting a voice in taxation 
and trade would not be a right that the colonists could expect. However, the British never offered true 
protection to the American colonists. Every law was made in order to serve the British populace, and did 
not exist to protect the lives as the colonists. Because this basic protection was never granted, the social 
contract did not exist and therefore, the Americans we justified in rebelling.”
There are also clear opportunities in each of the situational examples. What was the British rationale 
for The Stamp Act and The Navigation Act? Why might someone call the Boston Tea Party an unjust 
demonstration by the colonists, and why would that person be wrong? Any exploration of these ideas 
would add clear depth and persuasiveness to the overall ideas in the paper.

- 1 -

essay: History - Necessary Revolution

 

 

 

      The Necessary American Revolution

The American Revolution was the rebellion of British colonies established in the United States against 

 
 
  
A revolution is defined as a rebellion or an uprising of a people against a government that they find 
unjust. This upheaval tends to occur when a social contract, an intangible, unwritten agreement between 
the citizens and the government, has been violated, causing outrage amongst the citizens. There were 
two prestigious philosophers that had differing theories concerning this social contract. The philosopher 
Thomas Hobbes believed that in return for protection, the people gave up their rights to the government. 
John Locke, on the other hand, believed, “Men have rights by their nature” that cannot be taken away 
regardless of their agreement with the government. Clearly, all humans’ inalienable rights cannot simply 
be seized by the government, and if someone attempts to expunge these rights, the people have “a liberty 
to kill the aggressor” (Locke). Natural rights are civil liberties that no one has the power to simply steal as 
part of an “agreement.” 
 
English Parliament. After the French and Indian War, the relationship between the Americans and the 
British went sour.  Britain enforced restrictions on where the people could settle in America. Parliament 
was constantly creating taxes without their consent and forcing the colonists’ to pay them anyway. The 
Americans were fed up with Britain trying to strip them of their liberty. All of this injustice the Americans 
faced led to their desire to be liberated from Britain. Since Britain’s actions practically dehumanized 
Americans, they had the right to go against the government, therefore justifying the American Revolution. 
Hobbes’ was right that people must give up liberties to the government in exchange for protection; 
however, Locke’s theory that people have certain rights that cannot be taken away overpowers the 
agreement between the two parties. All people retain the “right to life and liberty,” (Locke) as Locke said in 
his social contract theory, “And hence it is that he who attempts to get another man into his absolute power 
does thereby put himself into a state of war with him” (Locke). Some historians believe that the colonists 
in America during the 18th century were in the wrong when they rebelled against Britain and started the 
American Revolution. Even though Britain did help the colonists’ get established in America, the colonists’ 
rebellion was indeed justified. No matter how much they may have aided the Americans, the Parliament 
had no right to strip them of their liberty. The three primary events that portray their just mutiny were: the 
Navigation Acts, the Stamp Act, and the Boston Tea Party.
 
Revolution because Britain was trying to oppress them by cutting off their ability to trade with other 
countries. These acts put restraints on who the colonists could trade with, limiting them to Great Britain. 
They were practically prohibited from trading with any other countries outside of their mother country. 
In the philosopher-economist Adam Smith’s book Wealth of Nations, he states that “To prohibit a great 
people, however, from making all that they can of every part of their own produce, or from employing 
their stock and their industry in the way that they judge most advantageous to themselves is a manifest 
violation of the most sacred right of mankind” (6). Britain deprived the Americans from taking full 
advantage of their “produce.” This deprivation of prosperity denied the Americans of an inalienable right: 

The Navigation Acts were a clear example of the colonists’ validation behind the American 

- 2 -

The Stamp Act was merely one event that demonstrated Britain’s unjust acts that led to the American 

liberty. In Locke’s theory, if a government attempts to take “absolute power” (Locke) over a people, 
they are setting themselves up to be attacked. This was the case with Britain and the Americans. Britain 
overstepped the power that the colonists had given to them, and basically asked for all of the disobedience 
that followed in the colonies. In a forum with Berkeley, the Governor of Virginia, a London official asked, 
“’What advantages or improvements do you observe that may be gained to your trade or navigation?’”(5). 
Berkeley responded saying, “’None, unless we had liberty to transport our pipe staves, timber, and corn 
to other places besides the King’s dominions” (5). Britain’s limits placed on the colonists’ commercial 
relations with other countries did not better the economy or conditions in America. It was a selfish act to 
protect the affluence of Britain and prevent other European countries from gaining a prestige greater than 
their own. When the act was passed, the success of the colonies was not kept in mind. King George was 
only worried about the English economy. Since the mother country was no longer protecting the colonies, 
why would she expect the colonies to abide by her rule? Britain was no longer holding up their side of the 
contract, so the colonies were not obligated to respect the agreement any longer.
 
Revolution because Great Britain unjustly forced “taxation without representation” on the colonies. In 
the House of Commons’ forum with Benjamin Franklin, he was asked if the colonies were “reimbursed 
by Parliament,” and his answer was, “’We were only reimbursed what, in your opinion, we had advanced 
beyond our proposition, or beyond what might reasonably be expected from us; and it was a very small 
part of what we spent’”(5). During the Seven Years’ War, the colonies spent millions and the Stamp 
Act was only stripping them of even more money that they would never be compensated for. Britain 
took advantage of them, supposedly paying them back when the colonies were not getting back nearly 
as much as what they had been forced to give to Britain. In the non-importation agreement in the book 
The Constitutions of the Several Independent States of America, the people stated, “His Majesty’s 
American subjects are oppressed; and having taken under our most serious deliberation the state of the 
whole continent, find that the present unhappy situation of our affairs is occasioned by a ruinous system 
of colony administration, adopted by the British Ministry about the year 1763, evidently calculated for 
enslaving these colonies and with them, the British empire”(10). The Stamp Act was more of a burden on 
the colonies than anything else. It made them slaves to Europe and prevented them from creating a profit 
for their own country. Their production in America was simply being used to increase England’s wealth, 
defeating their hope to be a prosperous nation. Britain took the colonies under their control, rather than 
just providing them with security. Since Great Britain had, once again, transgressed their control of the 
colonies, the Americans had every right to revolt. Therefore, all of their actions that followed after Britain’s 
wrongdoings were justified.
 
and unreasonable actions. Britain had held them down for so long, and they could not bear it anymore. 
Before the Boston Tea Party occurred, the Tarring and Feathering Committee wrote a letter to the men 
collecting taxes on tea stating that, “In the first place, we must tell you that Pennsylvanians are, to a man, 
passionately fond of freedom, the birthright of all Americans…sincerely believe no power has a right to 
tax them without their consent”(14). The Pennsylvanians, along with all other Americans, felt that they 
were entitled to a say in taxes imposed on them. They deserve their freedom and should not be subjugated 
by such an unruly government. Britain violated the natural rights of the Americans that all human beings 

The Boston Tea Party was the result of the growing fury of Americans, due to Britain’s corrupt 

- 3 -

automatically have. The tax on tea without the colonists’ consent was, therefore, Britain’s declaration of 
war to the colonies. In a letter between two business associates, John Andrews and William Barrell, John 
Andrews says, “However it is the opinion of most people that we stand an equal chance now, whether 
troops are sent in consequence of it or not”(16).  The colonies were no longer willing to let British 
Parliament control their lives. They felt their voice needed to be heard despite the consequences. They 
had no representation in Parliament which resulted in the constant injustice they faced. Their only option 
to gain back the inalienable rights they had been deprived of was to rebel against the Parliament who was 
guilty of massacring their liberty as human beings.
The American Revolution was more than justified; it was necessary. John Locke’s social contract 
 
theory was that people have the right to rebel against a government that is not doing their job properly 
or attempting to take absolute power. Britain had failed to secure America; Britain tore them down by 
restricting them. In addition, Britain had attempted to Americans slaves to their mother country rather 
than an extension of their mother country. Clearly, the only way to prove their strength to the tyrannical 
Parliament was to rebel against them. The three key events that illustrate the Americans’ rationale for 
rebelling are the Navigation Acts, the Stamp Act and the Boston Tea Party.

- 4 -



