Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/IDEAS04B.PDF
iDeAs 4 (set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

AbsTrAcT/summAry:
This paper shows a depth of understanding about the text, but the complexity and nuance of thought are not 
particularly strong throughout, preventing it from scoring a 5.  The reader has a strong sense that the reader 
was set up for success in the prompt given by the teacher, and the writer did not do much analysis beyond 
plugging in his or her answer (albeit successfully) to the framework already provided. (The prompt clearly 
gives the definition of a tragic hero and asks the writer to prove which character fits the description most 
closely; the writer neglects to go much beyond proving that Creon is the tragic hero because he “controls 
his own fate.”)

criTerion 1: QuALiTy
The overall concept of a tragic hero controlling his or her own fate (and the subsequent accurate analysis 
of the characters) shows a depth of understanding, which gets stronger as the paper progresses. In the first 
body paragraph, the observation that Ismene is “the only remaining family member”—an example of her 
suffering—is a nuanced observation. The second body paragraph observes that Haemon’s death seems to 
fit the classic description of a tragic hero because he “dies beside his bride,” but because this was put into 
motion by his father’s mistakes, it was not under Haemon’s control (despite the fact that he committed 
suicide). Therefore, he cannot be a tragic hero. This idea shows an analysis of a subtle distinction. 
However, these nuanced observations do not dominate the paper. The paper is fairly repetitive and slides 
into plot summary at times.

criTerion 2: subsTAnTiATion
The main position (that Creon is the tragic hero) is substantiated throughout the paper. Each paragraph 
proves or disproves why a certain character is a tragic hero, and leads nicely to the final body paragraph 
about Creon. However, this paper can not score a five, because there are clear opportunities to analyze 
opposing arguments that the writer does not take. (For example, the writer could set up a premise in which 
he explains why some actions by another character might be considered those of a tragic hero, but then 
disproves them based on a nuanced analysis: “Antigone is many a reader’s choice for tragic hero because 
of the grisly and expressive way she commits suicide; however, hidden behind her tragic bravado lies the 
root cause of her death: Creon’s decree. With Creon as the chief orchestrator of the main catalyst for the 
play’s events, he ultimately controls the fate of his family and is the main tragic hero.”)

- 1 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -



