Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/INTERPRETATION01A.PDF
InteRpRet AtIon 1 ( set 1)

Analysis: History - Ingredients Revolution

AbstRAct/summARy:
While interpretation in this paper is extremely minimal and mainly just restates the assertion (one slight 
example in the third paragraph), it is generally understandable and some pieces are related to the assertion. 
Therefore, this paper barely scores a 1 for interpretation.

cRIteRIon 1: JustIfIcAtIon
This paper earns a 1 because most interpretations are understandable even if they don’t accomplish their 
goals to prove the assertion. [A good litmus test is general confusion-- as a reader, do you finish the 
paragraph and think, “Wait...what did I just read? What does that have to do with anything?” If the answer 
is yes, than the interpretations are not generally understandable. This type of confusion does not happen in 
this paper.]
In the first paragraph, the quotation is misplaced in the paragraph and does not support the assertion (see 
evidence selection for more clarification); moreover, the sentence following the quotation has little to no 
relation to the quotation itself. While it is understandable, it is a simple restatement of the assertion that 
has no linkage to the evidence (about the nature of class relationships). However, there is no evidence of 
analysis in this attempt at interpretation; the writer is merely rephrasing a fact about Lenin.
In the second paragraph, the attempted interpretation is slightly related to the quotation, but only in the 
sense that it refers to the people. The message of the quotation has to do with the power of the masses, 
which the topic of the paragraph—and the failed interpretation that follows—reference the need for 
devotion to the leader by the people.
The third paragraph makes an attempt (“Once everyone is on the same page, then it is easier to get 
something accomplished”) but this is a weak and solitary example of true analysis.
In addition, this cannot score a 2 for many other reasons. There is no rough use of word glue or logic glue. 
In addition, while evidence is roughly related to the assertion, it isn’t fully connected (or in some cases, the 
interpretation ends up proving a different point than the assertion).
This paper cannot score a 2 because the interpretation does not “connect… the evidence to the assertion.” 
There are several faulty interpretations in this paper where the assertion, evidence, and interpretation do 
not align. This is particularly evidence in paragraph one:

• 
• 
• 
• 

The assertion argues that “a determined leader is needed to run a functional revolution.”
The evidence is about the nature of class relationships
The interpretation concludes that “a professional and experienced leader” is necessary.
ANALYSIS: The assertion argues that a “determined” leader is necessary while the interpretation 
concludes that a “professional and experienced” leader is necessary. These are two different ideas. 
Furthermore, the evidence does not support either of these arguments. Hence, the interpretation 
does not “connect… the evidence to the assertion.”

- 1 -

This paper could receive a 2 for its rough use of word glue and some rough use of logic glue. It is 
important to note that the qualifier “some” equals 20-40% and that 20-40% of the interpretation sentences 
have these attributes.  Let us explore this in the third body paragraph:

“Lastly, to do well in a revolution, you have to be united and fight for one cause. When people come 
together as one, they can easily achieve what their goal was set to be. ‘In order to free ourselves of 
dynastic rule, we need to unite as one people.’ (Sun Yixian)
Interpretation Line 1: Sun Yixian, the former president of China, states that unity is the key to a great 
and powerful undefeated force known as revolution.
Interpretation Line 2: Once everyone is on the same page, then it is easier to get something 
accomplished.
Interpretation Line 3: Like Abraham Lincoln said ‘Together we stand. Divided we fall.’”

Word glue is the actual wording a writes uses to tie, or blend, two sentences together so that the reader 
understands the writer’s thinking process.

• 

• 
• 

The word “unite” and “unity” ties the first line of interpretation to the evidence. Additionally, the 
process of “free[ing] ourselves of dynastic rule” is revolution; this connection is a second example 
of word glue between these lines.
From interpretation lines 1-2, “everyone” is referring to the “unity” that needs to occur.
From interpretation lines 2-3, “we” again refers to this united “everyone.”

Logic glue represents the relationship between two sentences. This relationship can either be implied or 
explicitly stated with transitional words. At low levels of writing, however, logic glue should be explicit 
through transitional phrases.

• 

• 

There is an attempt at logic glue in interpretation line 2 - the “once everyone… then…” statement 
models the “if… then” logical frame. However, no other transitions link this paragraph together.
In body paragraph 2, the author uses another “if… then” logical frame when they write, “Mao 
Zedong understood as a leader of the Chinese Revolution that if they were to prosper, the people 
supporting him would have to be determined, devoted, and be willing to follow without doubts.”

 

- 2 -

essay: History - Ingredients Revolution
Essay #1

Prompt: Lenin states that “any cook should be able to run the country.” If revolution is the stew and 
contributing factors are the ingredients, what is the recipe for revolution; namely, what are the three most 
significant contributing factors?

 
“Any cook should be able to run the country.” Lenin states that a cook could run the country in 
reference with the fact that there are only specific ingredients that could make a true revolution. In theory, 
it takes a determined leader, a faithful group of followers and one uniting cause to prepare the perfect 
revolution.
 
First off, a determined leader is needed to run a functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired the 
people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t for him and his devotion to the cause, the people would not 
have succeeded in creating the nation they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is possible to obtain 
this knowledge is the sphere of relationships of all classes and strata to the state and the government, 
the sphere of interrelations between all classes made possible by professional revolutionaries.”(V.I. 
Lenin) Lenin expresses the idea that in order to create and run a revolution, you need a professional and 
experienced leader to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the attempt would be futile.
Secondly, a faithful group of followers can take the revolution very far. A leader without followers 
 
would go nowhere. In order to be faithful to your revolution, you have to be prepared to do whatever 
it  takes to get to your common goal. “The force of peasentry is like that of the raging winds and driving 
rain… No force can stand in its way. The peasentry will tear apart all nets which bind it and hasten along 
the road to liberation.”(Mao Zedong) Mao Zedong understood as a leader of the Chinese Revoution that 
if they were to prosper, the people supporting him would have to be determined, devoted, and be willing 
to follow without doubts. Without people with true faith in the cause, there will be opposition and the 
revolution will not thrive.
 
Lastly, to do well in a revolution, you have to be united and fight for one cause. When people come 
together as one, they can easily achieve what their goal was set to be. “In order to free ourselves of 
dynastic rule, we need to unite as one people.”(Sun Yixian) Sun Yixian, the former president of China, 
states that unity is the key to a great and powerful undefeated force known as revolution. Once everyone is 
on the same page, then it is easier to get something accomplished.  Like Abraham Lincoln said “Together 
we stand. Divided we fall.”
 
revolution. With a leader to illuminate the right path, followers  to sacrifice whatever for the cause and one 
common goal you will see that the revolution will prosper. In any event, each of the revolutions discussed 
including the Chinese Revolution, the Communist Revolution in Russia and many others had these 
components. 

Altoghether, a trusting leader, trusting followers, and unity, are the key components to a excellent 

- 3 -



