Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/INTERPRETATION08.PDF
INTERpRETATION 8

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
The masterful interpretation in this paper that illustrates deep critical, original, nuanced, and well-
articulated analysis and justification is also an exemplar and scores an 8 on this rubric. There are a few 
pieces of interpretation that are slightly weaker, but the overall quality is so high it can only score an 8.

CRITERION 1: ANALYSIS
This paper has many examples of interpretation that show thorough comprehensive critical thought while 
retaining clarity.  The writer also uses key words from evidence smoothly and effectively.
Example #1: “In contrast, by explicitly mentioning that the statue’s visage is ‘half sunk’ in the ‘sand,’ 
Shelley implies that the desert itself is slowly consuming the statue and must therefore be the victor.”
Here, the author has taken a small detail of the poem and offered an analysis using key words from the 
evidence that directly leads to his subargument of the position—i.e., that space and time eventually triumph 
over mankind.
Example #2: “At the end of the sonnet, however, the tone of the first four lines returns with a vengeance: 
‘Round the decay/Of that colossal wreck, boundless ad bare,/The lone and level sands stretch far away’ 
(12-14). No longer glorified, the statue loses all the powerful vitality and becomes a ‘decay’ once again. 
And only one line after the statue openly mocks the gods, Shelley in turn openly mocks the statue as a 
‘colossal wreck.’ “
This analysis shows impressive and  comprehensive critical thought and uses a key word-- “decay”-- to 
link back to the subargument that the desert is the dominant force in the poem (which supports his thesis 
that Shelley views the expanse of space as time as the ultimate rule of order).

CRITERION 2: JUSTIFICATION
This paper has strong analysis that leads to compelling and thoughtful justification (word glue in italics, 
logic glue in bold):

The soft alliteration [in Yeats’ poem] serves an entirely different purpose here: by emphasizing the 
size of the desert, Yeats gives the reader as vague a notion of where the beast is as possible (not 
only is the beast ‘somewhere’ in a nondescript desert, but the beast is ‘somewhere’ in a very large  
nondescript desert).

This analysis of the alliteration (that it emphasizes the size of the desert by stretching out the line) leads 
to a fully justified argument (that Yeats is purposefully being vague about the source of the dangerous 
‘beast.’)  
To continue:

This effect, coupled with Yeats’ description of the beast as simple a “shape with a lion body and head  

- 1 -

of a man’ and his later use of the adjective “rough” (as in blurry or sketchy), indicated to the reader  
that Yeats’ vision is incomplete. Thus while Shelley used alliteration and desert imagery to connote     
the power and infinity of the immortal, Yeats uses them to instead make his vision seem as uncertain  
as possible, and by extension to make the fate of humanity to seem as vague as possible.

The author presents two different and strong pieces of evidence that “...Yeats’ vision is incomplete”—
namely, the soft alliteration, and the use of the words “shape” and “rough.” He then uses this evidence to 
bring the reader to his immediate justification—“Yeats’ vision is incomplete”—which supports his central 
thesis about the differing arguments and picture both authors are presenting about what the future holds 
after a struggle of chaos and order.
Page 5 has another strong example of linking three distinct pieces of analysis back to the paragraph’s 
assertion:

Taken together, all of these three elements dramatically slow down the pace of the description of the 
statue’s history, making the king’s achievements seem as if they took ages and ages to build up and 
establish.

In this sentence, the writer summarizes the analysis of the three main pieces of evidence in the paragraph 
(mild polysyndeton, subordination, end-stopped lines) and make a clear, final substantiating statement that 
links the evidence back to the main assertions (that the rhythm of the poem reinforces the poet’s underlying 
message about the fragility of man’s accomplishments).

- 2 -

Essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -

- 13 -



