Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/INTERPRETATION02A.PDF
inTerpreTATion 2 (Set 1)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

SummAry/ABSTrACT:
All interpretation in this paper is adequate; most is logical and accurate. Some pieces of interpretation (see 
ideas strand analysis for examples) are even thoughtful and focused. However, this author does not use key 
words in her interpretation, which affects the quality of the ideas she presents. This step would push the 
writer much farther on the rubric, and prevents the paper from scoring a 3.

CriTerion 1: AnALySiS
Most analysis of evidence is accurate (the interpretation of the cabin as something “that will not go away” 
is one exception to this; the analysis of the scarf’s “intensity” is another), and most analysis is logical. 
The paper contains several examples of thoughtful analysis (“The author intentionally placed this image 
in the poem to help the individual reading experience that warm sensation. This is exhibiting how love 
places you out of harm’s way and makes you want to stay, as if you belong.”) Here, the reader analyses the 
author’s intent in choosing a particular image, and analyzes how the poet wants the reader to feel. Then, 
she analyzes the exact meaning of that feeling that the poet has created.
Additionally, the analysis is not particularly focused—she tends to make sweeping strokes in explaining 
what the evidence proves; this lack of focus in the analysis can  be traced to two root causes:
1.      the clarity and focus of her assertions, which also employ broad and general vocabulary and ideas.
2.      the lack of incorporation of key words in interpretation.
The latter would lead to focused and thoughtful analysis.
In the above example, instead of:
“This is exhibiting how love places you out of harm’s way and makes you want to stay, as if you belong.”
Consider:
“This invitation for the reader to “warm yourself” and “rest by the fire” suggests a generous and kind 
speaker and encourages the reader to stay and enjoy the comfortable setting. The suggestion that the fire 
will “make you feel safe” indicates that the reader is protected and should feel at home. The speaker’s 
invitation to “rest” and emphasis on warmth and safety suggests total acceptance; indeed, this is a place 
where vulnerability is encouraged and “fire” encompasses all with its warmth.”

CriTerion 2: JuSTifiCATion
The paper has rough use of word glue (in italics) and logic glue (inbold). However, while it is a valiant 
attempt, it mostly makes the paper feel repetitive:

The speaker’s employment of figurative language produces the idea that love is feeling sheltered, and 
not something that you can just dispose of. In the third stanza, the poet conveys his idea that loves 

- 1 -

warmth makes you feel protected by the use of a metaphor. Baca states, “it is a scarf for your head, to 
wear/over your hair, to tie up around your face” (11-12). The author is comparing the scarf’s intensity 
to his love, and power to make you feel protected. His love is warmhearted, which means he can make 
you feel sheltered. In the fifth stanza, the author is expressing the idea that love is not something you 
can throw away by the use of a simile. Baca states, “tucked away like a cabin or a hogan.” (6) The 
artist is contrasting a hidden cabin in the forest to how his love is not something that will just go away. 
The author intended this simile to show how much he cares, and to let the reader know he is always 
there. This is showing that love is something you can save but not something you can dispose of. All 
in all, this illustrates the idea that the author’s use of figurative language shows that love creates a 
feeling of being sheltered, and not something that you can just toss away.

The justification is not always convincing; the last evidence chunk is interpreted as follows: “The author 
intended this simile to show how much he cares, and to let the reader know he is always there.” This 
sentence is one example of interpretation that is overly simplistic or general, and rings perfunctory instead 
of true. In addition, the author arrives at the correct conclusion but the lack of clear, thoughtful reasoning 
means that this interpretation is not convincing.

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -



