Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/innovative-af-greenfield-model-featured-in-national-magazine/
File URL: HTTPS://WWW.ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2019/02/ONE-DAY-GREENFIELD.PDF
One Day

In a Wildly Changing World, 

A School Hits Reset

Achievement First Greenfield is what happened when a school 

network said its best wasn’t good enough. A new design comes alive.

BY LEAH FABEL • PHOTOS BY ANDREW HENDERSON

W hat do you want to be when you grow up?” used to be a 

reasonable question. But as automation completely upends 
the workplace and forces like climate change promise massive 

upheaval, future careers are anything but predictable. Cathy Davidson, a 
leading thinker on the future of education, predicted in her book Now You 
See It that 65 percent of students will land jobs that have yet to be creat-
ed—jobs responding to discoveries and challenges we have yet to imagine. 
Schools were not designed to prepare kids equitably for those unknowns. 
Can they be?

In  New  Haven,  Connecticut,  leaders  of  the Achievement  First  charter 
school network are among those trying. The network—seen as a trailblazer 
among gap-closing school networks and systems—had a humbling wake-up 
call in 2013 when students scored well below expectations on new assess-
ments linked to Common Core standards. Adding to the injury, alumni data 
showed college-completion rates of about 50 percent. That’s better than the 
9 percent average for low-income students nationwide, but not nearly on par 
with their aspirations.

After swallowing the facts, leaders asked what they would build if they 
could do it all over again. If they took the best of what they and other schools 

Students at Elm City College Prep in New Haven, Connecticut, take 
two 40-minute electives each day, like this music class. The hope is 
that they’ll learn the value of practice in pursuit of a goal—and that 
they’ll find joy in doing it.

Kindergarteners,  like  their  older  peers,  practice  a  balanced  mix  of 
learning styles: individual (and often computer-based), small-group, 
and whole-group instruction.

had learned in 18 years, and merged it with advances in neuroscience, could 
they keep pace with the blistering speed of change and do better by kids?

After 18 months of designing, planning, and piloting, the result is Achieve-
ment First Greenfield, brought to life for the first time this year by kindergarten 
through sixth graders at New Haven’s Elm City College Prep. In the fall, two 
Greenfield middle schools will open, one in New York City and one in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island. On the surface, the model does not blow up school as 
we know it. Much looks familiar: the building, the extended-day schedule, kids 
sorted into grades, wearing uniforms. Still, it’s a radical shift compared to the 
network’s 31 “classic” schools because of how and what kids learn.

Greenfield is a showcase for many of the big ideas converging in a roll-
ing reinvention of school: the idea that more kids will accomplish remarkable 
things if we treat them as unique learners—something technology now can 
assist; that non-academic skills can’t be limited to buzzy ideas like building 
resilience, but must nurture students as confident, powerful individuals; that 
enrichments are not extras or rewards but fundamental to building a discovery 

One Day

Elm  City  makes  a  point  of  teaching  students  to  become  great  note-takers  so  they  can 
eventually acquire knowledge independently.

classes and internships. Many of those opportunities 
disappeared after policies like No Child Left Behind 
ushered in an emphasis on high-stakes testing. But 
educators are bringing them back, heeding commu-
nities’ calls for schools where students develop social 
capital and liberating mindsets.

Nonprofit consulting firms are providing some of 
the research and development long considered funda-
mental to fields like medicine but lacking in the educa-
tion sector. Transcend, a national firm whose charge 
is  to  accelerate  innovation  in  school  model  design, 
led the Greenfield project. They’re also collaborating 
with the New Schools Venture Fund to help 10 other 
districts and networks—including D.C Public Schools 
and  YES  Prep  Public  Schools—work  through  their 
own year-long redesigns.

As the ideas and funding converge, a picture is 
emerging of what school could look like in a not-so-
distant future. Learning would be more self-directed. 
Technology would be omnipresent, helping teachers 
and students alike. Students would spend less time in 
school buildings and would proceed at different paces 
en route to mastering what the nonprofit Next Genera-
tion Learning Challenges calls the four essential com-
petencies:  content  knowledge,  creative  know-how, 
habits of success, and “wayfinding” abilities.

mindset; that schools will not succeed unless families and communities shape 
them and drive their objectives.

The ideas aren’t new so much as gaining a critical mass of school leaders 
and funders willing to make big bets on reinvention. Lindsay Unified schools 
in the farm fields of central California implemented a district-wide competen-
cy-based model, where grade levels are porous and each student progress-
es at a different pace. One of Minneapolis’s highest-performing charter net-
works, Hiawatha Academies, is shelving its how-to guide and designing, with 
students and families, a brand-new take on school to open in 2018. A high 
school redesign competition put on by XQ: The Super School Project drew 
700 applicants pursuing 10 awards worth $10 million each. Facebook founder 
Mark Zuckerberg and his pediatrician wife, Priscilla Chan, promised $45 bil-
lion over their lifetimes to four areas of need, one being personalized learning.
Thousands of schools and networks don’t call their work “redesigns,” but 
they have been driving innovation for two decades and running by iterating, 
piloting, and continuously adapting to optimize teaching and learning. KIPP, 
for example, added KIPP Through College in 2008 in an effort to improve 
college graduation rates. So why this wave, and why now?

The “big ideas” pursued by places like Achievement First are, in many 
ways, the progression of efforts to solve persistent problems, like opportunity 
gaps. But they also confront the fact that kids need a new kind of preparation 
to give them options in an uncertain future.

Take personalized learning. Proponents have long argued it’s the best 
shot at leaving no student hopelessly off track. But for years, educators like 
Toll were underwhelmed by the computer programs driving it. Now, finally, 
she and others say the technology is meeting its promise. Or take the idea 
of giving students rich experiences beyond core academics, like enrichment 

If those sound too jargony, think of the needs this way: More than ever 
before, adults don’t actually know the information that kids will need to know 
to succeed. So even if we wanted to teach them the “right” set of facts, we 
can’t. Instead, we need to teach them how to isolate problems and find solu-
tions—and, when they fail, how to keep at it until they break through.

Dacia Toll likens Achievement First’s experience to Toyota. Throughout the 
1980s and 90s, the automotive giant produced two of the world’s top-selling cars, 
the Corolla and the Camry. Still, they decided to invest significant resources into 
a new model. The result was the Prius, a revolution in clean transportation.

“Our feeling was that we needed to pursue two paths,” Toll says. “On the 
one, you have to keep getting better at what you have in place. But if you 
only stay in the world of continually improving on the same structures and 
approaches, that might be too limiting.”

EXPEDITIONS
For two weeks at a time, three times each school year, all students plunge 
deeply into one topic, finishing with a performance or presentation. Students 
in a design and construction expedition spent a day on the building site of a 
Yale University dorm. A “community change-makers” expedition paired stu-
dents with residents of a senior living home to track housing gentrification in 
parts of the city.

Expeditions are one way for Greenfield students to layer learning experi-
ences atop each other, a strategy shown to boost understanding and retention. 
So after first graders learned about China in their humanities coursework, their 
Chinese culture expedition (including daily tai chi instruction) brought it to life.
While early elementary students do expeditions by grade level, students 

One Day

During the week, students meet each day in “goal teams,” teacher-led 
groups of 10 to 15 students who set goals together and work through chal-
lenges. The idea is for students to develop life habits, like awareness of their 
strengths  and  weaknesses,  within  a  meaningful  mini-community.  Co-CEO 
Toll says the network has always understood the importance families play in 
students’ success. But the role of the larger community and, in particular, of 
peers, “is something we’ve woken up to.”

PERSONALIZED LEARNING PLUS
For  about  two  hours  each  day,  students  employ  learning  software—some 
purchased, but most created by the network’s in-house curriculum team—to 
work at their own pace on skills tailored to their academic needs. Individu-
alized learning happens alongside small-group and whole-class instruction, 
typically in the same space. Picture a fifth grade classroom. On the far side, 
looking toward the back wall, 15 students face a teacher and a whiteboard. 
On the near side, looking toward the front wall, another 15 students face a dif-
ferent teacher. Students on the far side are on their computers, headphones 
plugged in. The teacher tracking their progress on her device calls individuals 
or small groups together for extra help.

On the near side, a teacher leads students through a complicated math 
problem. All 15 students are working together, taking the skills they learned 
through the personalized lessons and applying them to the real world. After 
40 minutes, students switch sides.

First-grader KhyRen Jones leads a meeting for members of his “dream 
team,” including his mom, grandmother, siblings, and football coach. 

Rahsaan Yearwood (Connecticut ’14) is Elm City’s lead math teacher for 
fourth and fifth grade, teaching the whole-group class. He’s a guide more than 
an instructor, anticipating pitfalls and drawing out reluctant participants. Even 
struggling students can feel successful each day with the computer-based 
learning, he says, which frees him to nurture a teamwork culture where mis-
takes are welcome. “It’s to the point we almost say thank you for making the 

(Left)  Students  engage  in  short  bursts  of  activity  throughout  the 
school day. Research has shown this practice increases focus. (Right) 
For  students’  daily  high  heart  rate  elective,  they  choose  between 
dance and martial arts.

in grades three to six have choices. Jayden Richards, a fifth grader, chose 
Wilderness Explorers. Teachers from a local outdoor-education group led the 
24 students each day on trips to area parks and forests, rain or shine. Rich-
ards, wide-eyed, described learning about forest edibles, like onion grass and 
a twig that tastes like a Tic Tac. “Just to be outside exploring the wilderness 
every day,” she says. “It was amazing.”

ENRICHMENTS
Students’ two 40-minute enrichment classes daily are no dilly-dally break from 
core coursework. For their “high heart rate” block they choose between dance 
and martial arts. To build mental flexibility, they choose between music and 
STEM Inventions.

Aylon Samouha, co-founder of Transcend and leader of the Greenfield 
design team, says students are building a growth mindset, “attaching to a 
practice and getting better at it every day.” And it shows. In dance, students 
study modern techniques, hip-hop, jazz, and ballet. The instructor is an ex-
acting choreographer, shouting “No, no, no, no, NO!” when the students fail 
to dance in perfect sync to an instrumental version of Salt-N-Pepa’s “Shoop.” 
When they finally get it right, she smiles. And the students’ pride is genuine.
Students  at Achievement  First’s  classic  schools  learn  through  enrich-
ments, too, but for less time each day and on a rotating basis, not through the 
day-after-day practice prioritized at Greenfield.

GOAL TEAMS AND DREAM TEAMS
During Greenfield’s design phase, the design team invited interested parents 
to participate.  Many expressed how the job of a parent can feel impossible, 
especially without extra support. As a result, each student at Elm City has 
a “dream team.” Ideally, they include parents, a teacher, at least one men-
tor—maybe a coach, relative, or pastor—and one classmate, referred to as 
a “running partner.” Instead of traditional parent-teacher conferences each 
quarter, students lead dream team meetings. Photographs of dream teams 
line the walls of the school as a constant reminder of their support.

One Day

by significant margins on state exams and nearly doubled the proficiency rate 
of New Haven public schools. Math scores revealed a significant advantage 
for Greenfield students, as well. The student attrition rate at Elm City is 1 
percent this year. And more than 90 percent of teachers who received offers 
to return for the 2016-17 school year accepted.

At some point, Toll expects all Achievement First schools to adopt at least 
parts of the Greenfield model, however it evolves. There’s no timetable for 
when that will happen. “As fast as we can, as slow as we must,” she says.

Toll, whose own children attend Elm City, returns daily to the question of 
whether her students will be prepared for the world that awaits them—a world 
where they’ll both experience and be asked to fix problems no one can yet 
predict. She takes hope from students like Jeremiah Shaw, a sixth grader in 
his first year at the school. His father, Alvis Shaw, says Jeremiah entered Elm 
City well behind his peers. At his previous school, he spent hours on home-
work, often ending in tears. “I thought this was a challenge I’d be facing for a 
long time,” Shaw says.

At Elm City, Jeremiah is a new student, a happy kid for whom this combi-
nation of learning experiences just works. During his spring expedition, Jere-
miah studied chess and now takes every opportunity to beat his big brothers at 
the game. In class, the self-directed computer-based learning—particularly in 

Students  work  through  “playlists”  developed  by  the  Achievement 
First curriculum team. They include readings, videos, and recordings 
related to the content. 

math and science—has allowed him to catch up on his skills enough to make 
sense of the whole-group challenges, which tend to be more fun. At previous 
schools, Shaw says teachers made sure Jeremiah finished his work, but not 
that he understood it. “Now,” he says, “he’s earning everything he’s doing.”

Shaw says more than anything, he feels like he has his son back—bright, 
playful, curious. “They have taken a kid who was on path ‘B’ going the wrong 
direction and put him on path ‘A’ going the right direction,” he says. And as long 
as that keeps up, the world’s path into an uncertain future has one more light. 

Math teacher Rahsaan Yearwood (Connecticut ’14) credits the Green-
field  model  with  nurturing  students  who,  when  they  get  a  problem 
wrong, “know if they try again using different mechanisms and tools, 
they can probably solve it.”

mistake, because now I can grow my learning that much more.” On his best 
days, students have rich discussions about why they fell into various traps. 
“When you get self-realization in the classroom, now you’re humming,” Year-
wood says.

SELF-DIRECTED LEARNING
Beyond personalization, the school aims to help students become “self-di-
rected.” During the design phase, Toll says alumni shared that when they got 
to college, they didn’t know how to study. At first, she was baffled—she knew 
they studied plenty in high school. But she learned that in high school, the 
material they needed to study was all laid out. In college, students said they 
were asked to learn more than half of the material on their own.

During Greenfield’s pilot year, the staff learned that self-direction doesn’t 
come naturally for students who have always had directions to follow. This 
year, they’re teaching it piece by piece. For example, students working on 
close-reading exercises in ELA begin by using study guides. Throughout the 
year, the study guides become less structured as students develop the skills 
to analyze texts independently.

THE FUTURE
Greenfield is a work in progress. The design team (which includes school lead-
ers,  curriculum  specialists,  and  a  tech  coordinator)  still  takes  feedback  and 
makes frequent corrections. When the school launched, students could work on 
any of their core subjects during self-directed learning time. That didn’t fly—stu-
dents didn’t organize their time well enough to complete their work. Now, they 
work on self-directed math during math class and self-directed ELA during ELA. 
Student agency waits while students learn skills that support independence.

Results so far have bolstered the team’s confidence. In the pilot year, fifth 
and sixth grade ELA classes outperformed classic Achievement First schools 



