Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-argument/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/ORGANIZATION-4-SET-1.PDF
Organization 4 (Set 1)

Analysis: Lit - Claudette Colvin
Organization: Structure

This paper scores a 4 for structure; the main reason for this is that the concluding statement links to the introduction but not to the
thesis (“Rosa Parks… is smart and has talent for ﬁghting for rights”).
Organization: Flow

This paper scores a 4 for ﬂow. While the scholar uses phrases and clauses including (“Another”, “For example”, “In the text”,
“Additionally”, “Clearly”, and “Furthermore”), there were no clauses being used as transitions. The use of clauses to help ‘create
cohesion and clarify the relationship’ would strengthen the ﬂow of the piece.

Essay: Lit - Claudette Colvin

Prompt: Should Rosa Parks or Claudette Colvin have been the face of the bus boycotts?

In the year 1955, a woman refused to give up her seat for a white person. The woman that refused to give up
her seat for a white person was Rosa Parks. She was the second person to give up her seat for a white person
and got credit for it. Claudette was ﬁrst to give up her seat for a white person, but she didn’t get credit for it.
Rosa Parks should have been the face of the bus boycott because she is smart and has talent for ﬁghting for
rights.

One reason is that Rosa Parks appealed to more people. In the text it says, “They were happy that Ms. Parks
had to give up her seat and they were happy that they were part of a movement.” Rosa should have been the
face of the bus boycott because when she knows a lot of people, she could have a lot of people by her side
and if Claudette was the face of the bus boycott people won’t listen to her because nobody knows her and she
is a teenager. Additionally, Rosa appealed to more people because people were happy that she refuse to give
up her seat. In the text it says, “They were singing. They were praying.” This shows Parks should have been

the face of the bus boycott because when people are singing and praying they are usually happy and joyful
that something happened.

Another reason Rosa Parks should have been the face of the bus boycott is that she was calm. In the text it
says, “She simply says no, and refuses to get up from her seat.” Rosa should have been the face of the bus
boycott because some people prefer a leader that is calm, gentle, and friendly, unlike Claudette, who is tough,
feisty, and strong. For example, if she was in a court case, she would have gone crazy when somebody on the
defensive side said a lie about what happened. Additionally, Rosa was calm because she didn’t act like
Claudette when she got arrested. In the text it says, “It’s my constitutional rights! She shrieked again and
again as the police dragged her from the bus.” This shows that Rosa should be the face of the bus boycott
because Claudette was not calm and she was quick tempered, so if she was in a court case and somebody said
a bad word to her she would have done something crazy to that person.

Clearly, Rosa Parks should have been the face of the bus boycott because she has talent for ﬁghting for rights
and also Rosa has respect. Furthermore, she acted responsible and humble when she got arrested because she
was calm and relaxed. Additionally, Rosa Parks has a lot of self-control, so that is why she should have been
the face of the bus boycott. What would the bus system be like if Rosa didn’t refuse to give up her seat?



