Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/ORGANIZATION06.PDF
ORGAniZATiOn 6

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
Overall, this paper has strong  organization that moves the reader through the text, and a masterful 
command of transitions. However, there are no true examples of unconventional organizational decisions 
that add to the substantiation of ideas. Therefore, this paper can not score an 8.

CRiTeRiOn 1: STRUCTURe
This paper employs a sophisticated compare/contrast structure throughout each paragraph, in that it 
analyzes Shelley, then Yeats through the previous analysis of Shelley, and then contrasts the two together in 
the latter half of the paper.
By this reviewer’s eye, the paragraphs have the following topics:

1.      Introduction
2.      Alliteration in “Ozamandias”
3.      Vertical symmetry in “Ozamandias”
4.      Rhyme Scheme in “Ozamandias”
5.      Rhythm in “Ozamandias”
6.      Horizontal asymmetry in “The Second Coming”
7.      Tone in “The Second Coming”
8.      Alliteration in “The Second Coming”
9.      Sonnet structure in “The Second Coming”
10.    Conclusion

This organization is intentional and builds the argument in a clear and nuanced way. (Related analysis is 
also in the section on assertions.)  For example, the paragraph on alliteration in “The Second Coming” 
builds on the analysis of alliteration in “Ozamandias,” buffing what is perhaps a slightly less convincing 
analysis by contrasting the different uses throughout:

This soft alliteration [...], just as in “Ozamandias,” emphasizes the size and scope of the desert by 
blurring the boundaries between syllables. Yet the soft alliteration serves an entirely different purpose 
here: by emphasizing the size of the desert, Yeats gives the reader as vague a notion of where the beast 
is as possible [...] 

The writer has clearly chosen to divide the paper into two major section, one on each of the poems. This 
is not a lazy choice, but rather one that gives the writer flexibility to center each paragraph around the 
meaning of a specific language use, rather than create one large paragraph on one language use in both 
poems. Doing the latter would potentially lose the punch of the “so what” (the meaning) of each assertion. 
However, the writer still weaves in contrast effectively as shown in the example above; this shows an 
intentional (and logical) sequence of paragraphs on the author’s part.

- 1 -

The introduction draws the reader in simply by its immediate command on the principle argument of the 
paper; the conclusion gives the reader a satisfying sense of closure by its expansion on the proof of the 
poet’s fears through history:

Ironically, though written almost exactly one hundred years apart, both poets ultimately prove 
correct. The vague form of ultimate order in Yeats’ vision sharpens over the decade after “The Second 
Coming” is published: as fears of communism spreads through Europe, the people of Italy and 
Germany ultimately turn to Fascist leaders Mussolini and Hitler to halt the slide of society towards 
chaos.

Such an extension belongs exactly in a conclusion; it is not central to the argument of the paper, but 
provides an additional insight that wraps up the argument neatly and leaves the reader with a satisfying 
sense of wonder.

CRiTeRiOn 2: FLOw
Smooth transitions pepper the paper. Each paragraph’s central conclusion supports the larger thesis, and 
details in the second half of the essay offer transitions that refer to parallels or contrasts in the first half. 
For one example, when the author analyzes the alliteration in “The Second Coming,” he refers to the 
alliteration in the first poem: “Yeats too uses soft alliteration to describe the desert in his poem, but  
unlike Shelley he uses it to emphasize not the power of the desert, but rather the uncertainty surrounding 
his vision.”

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -

- 13 -



