Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-argument/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/ORGANIZATION-7.PDF
Organization 7

Analysis: Lit - "Terrible Things" Allegory
Organization: Structure

This paper scores a 7 for the organizational structure. While this conclusion is indicative of an 8, eclipsing the thesis, the introduction
doesn’t effectively draw the reader in. Also, the content of the third body paragraph, while appropriate, does not enhance the
understanding of the reader given the missed opportunity to more fully place some blame on the bystanders who did nothing. In some
ways, this third body paragraph is ultimately the weakest of the three, although it could have and should have been the strongest.
Organization: Flow

This paper scores a 7 for the organizational ﬂow because of the variety of words, phrases, and clauses clarifying the relationships
between different evidence chunks and interpretations. There are a few awkward transitions, keeping this from scoring an 8. One
example of this, while not meaning to be awkward, is in the ﬁrst body paragraph where the author writes, “As cruelly as it was...”
While this is an attempt to create cohesion between the evidence and interpretation, the effect is a bit awkward and confusing. Because
it is an attempt to have a more sophisticated transition, it is more indicative of a 7 than of lower thresholds.

Essay: Lit - "Terrible Things" Allegory

Prompt: Analyze how “Terrible Things” is an allegory.

Throughout human history, works of literature have been used by people to present their ideas and opinions
on societal norms and regulations. “Terrible Things,” by Eve Bunting, is an example of this type of writing.
In her story, she writes of a placid clearing in a forest in which many animals reside. Unfortunately, their
peace is disturbed by a group of hunters, referred to as the Terrible Things, who come to the forest to take
animals that they dislike, and they refuse to let live. Similarly, during the Holocaust, groups of people were
discriminated against for their race, religion, and their appearances. The Nazis were the group responsible for
this racist persecution. The story “Terrible Things,” by Eve Bunting, allegorizes the Holocaust, a genocide
that occurred throughout Europe during the 1930s and 40s, to illustrate both the horrors of this time period
and the failure of the masses to protect each other; by using this symbolic representation of a historical event,

the author simultaneously simpliﬁes and strengthens her message.

One element of allegorical ﬁction is the use of symbolism; the guns used by the German military are
represented by the nets used by the Terrible Things. Both the nets and the guns, used to capture their targets,
were meant to serve the same purpose. In “The Terrible Things,” by Eve Bunting, she explains how the
Terrible Things use their nets and ﬂing them high “[to catch] the birds.” Symbolism is the ﬁctional
representation of an historical object or place. The nets, the historical object represented, are used in order to
“[catch] the birds” from the woods and take them to where the Terrible Things want the animals to go.
Linking to the Holocaust, according to nonﬁction text #5, the Walther P38 was made in 1945 meant “for the
German military.” The Walther P38 killed many Jewish people and also threatened some to go to the
concentration camps, like the nets in “The Terrible Things.” As cruelly as it was, the guns and nets had
blatantly usurped the freedoms of the victims from the their everyday lives and had forsaken human life by
being apathetic with regards to taking faultless civilians lives.

Another element of allegorical ﬁction is that characters often represent real people; the animals that did not
do anything to stop the Terrible Things represent the French Police of Vichy France. During the Nazi
invasions, many groups were turned against themselves, such as the French police. Correspondingly, in the
story, the animals turn against themselves. Whenever any animal questioned the Terrible Things’ reasoning
for taking the animals, Big Rabbit would say, “We mustn’t ask.” The fact that Big Rabbit said “we mustn’t
ask” shows how the animals did nothing to stop the terrible events going on around them, even though they
later rued not doing anything. On July 16 1942, the Nazis invaded the nation of France and terrorized the
people. According to Adrian Gilbert, author of “These Black Hours in Vichy France,” the French police were
turned against their own people by the Nazis. This act of turning against their own people is used in “Terrible
Things” when the animals refuse to stand up against the Terrible Things. The characters in the story were
representations of actual people during the Holocaust, proving it is an allegory.

The ﬁnal element of allegorical ﬁction is that the events in the story should be parallel to actual events that
occurred in real life; just as the Nazis targeted speciﬁc groups of people, the Terrible Things target speciﬁc
animals with certain characteristics. Although some events were inevitable, some could have been put to a
halt. For example, when the Terrible Things ﬁrst come into the clearing in the forest to look for certain
groups of animals, the animals could stand up for themselves. Unfortunately, their fear takes control of them.
In the story, the Terrible Things told the animals that they are looking for “every creature that swims.” This
characteristic of being able to “swim” shows that the Terrible Things persecuted animals who were different
just as the Nazis persecuted other people who were not ﬁt to be considered the “perfect race”. During the

actual Holocaust, the Nazis targeted people who they thought did not meet the criteria to be part of the
“perfect race” (which meant having fair hair and blue eyes). The Nazis targeted people who were Jewish,
Catholic, Romani (formerly known as gypsies), Soviet prisoners, Polish (Poles) and Soviet (Slavs) civilians,
homosexuals, people with disabilities, non-whites, Jehovah’s Witnesses, freemasons and many other types of
people. These people were targeted because of their appearances and their lack to meet Hitler’s criteria for his
“perfect race.” In the end, events from the story were parallel to the real life events that actually happened,
which make it an allegorical piece of literature

Overall, the actions done to the people during the Holocaust were devastating and detrimental to them and the
people worldwide. The story “Terrible Things,” by Eve Bunting, shows how the Holocaust and persecutions
affected people of different races. By using forest animals and a forest clearing, Bunting makes the effects of
the Holocaust accessible to people and children of all ages. This story allows people to understand the
dangers of racism and not standing up for what they know is right in order to make the world a better place to
live in. The “Terrible Things” is a useful allegory that can help people do what is right in order to prevent
another disaster like this from ever happening again.



