Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/ORGANIZATION03B.PDF
orGAniZAtion 3 (Set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Baca.Always Here

SummAry/ABStrAct:
This paper scores a high three; although transitions “are present between ideas, evidence chunks, and 
paragraphs,” (level 2) they do not “contribute to the general flow of ideas” (level 4). In addition, the 
interchangeable nature of the body paragraphs suggests that the organization does not “contribute to 
general the flow of ideas” (level 4).

criterion 1: Structure
In general, these paragraphs have the core components: they start with an assertion, move into 
contextualization, evidence, and interpretation. The author also attempts paragraph conclusions (although 
they read a bit stiff).
Introduction and conclusion are present and even appropriately structured; the first few sentences of the 
introduction orient the reader to the larger theme of the poem, and the conclusion wraps up the overall 
theme of the paper and attempts to make an extension beyond the thesis: “In conclusion, humans may 
realize how deep and important love really is.” (However, this is a rough attempt.)
(As an aside, the introduction contains some troublesome sentences: “Having realized this about life, 
humans learned that without knowing that there is someone that’s always there to pick you up when you’re 
down.” Beyond being a fragment, this sentence in the conclusion confuses the reader in terms of the idea 
it’s trying to construe. The fragment “Having realized this about life” is unclear in context with the rest 
of the paragraph, considering the sentence before lists poetic devices. In addition, the vague “that” in the 
sentence and “without” adds murkiness. Does having someone there for you add to the learning? Or does it 
happen regardless? What exactly do humans learn? This lack of clarity is not penalized in the organization 
strand at this stage, but is worth noting.)
More importantly, the sequence of body paragraphs do not logically support the thesis. Paragraphs are 
interchangeable and do not build on each other. For example, the writer could refer to the author’s use 
of imagery again in the second body paragraph that analyzes sound devices. The line “the cold cannot 
bite through” contains hard alliteration that indicates protection, as the author notes, but it’s also clear 
imagery that that suggests safety and warmth (the first paragraph’s assertion). If the writer thought more 
clearly about how her arguments built on each other, she could make a stronger point. For example, the 
paper might have been better served by an organizational structure that started with the most foundational 
device and progressed to the most nuanced (perhaps imagery-> figurative language-> alliteration, with the 
evidence in the last paragraph analyzing similar or the same evidence as other pieces of the paper, and the 
second paragraph analyzing how pieces of imagery with figurative language develop the poem’s central 
theme even more).
This reader would also add that poems are more typically analyzed in chronological order. Such an 
organizational approach is typically more intentional in poetic analysis because it allows the author to 
note the shifts in tone, meaning, language, craft or connotation over its course of the poem and pull these 
intentional changes into an analysis. If revised, the new organizational approach would demand revised 
position statements.

- 1 -

criterion 2: FLow
While there are transitions present, they are formulaic at best; they do not feel natural, purposeful, or 
varied. For example, the writer overuses the phrase “In conclusion” (at the end of nearly every paragraph) 
and “all in all” throughout the paper. Many sentences want for a more purposeful transition. For example, 
the second body paragraph, the sentences start as follows:
The composer purposely created this use of the alliteration because[...].This is showing [...]. In the seventh 
stanza, the author perpetuates the idea that love [...]. He suggests this by using a rhyme scheme. Baca 
states, “and to go on living inside/ when the world outside/ no longer cares if you live or die” (26-28). The 
rhyme scheme was intentionally placed in this poem to show[...]. This is displaying the idea that love is 
[...]. In conclusion, this conveys the idea that [...].
While passive voice clearly plays a negative role, this example also shows a missed opportunity for 
clearer, livelier transitions from claim to claim. A better paper would add transitions that highlight an 
interpretation, an extrapolation on an earlier claim, or a switch in focus. (Rough potential example: “The 
alliteration illustrates [...]; moreover, it illuminates [...]. Conversely, stanza seven eliminates alliteration 
altogether, indicating [...].”) 

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Baca.Always Here
Essay #2 
Prompt: How does the author use poetic devices to illuminate the theme of the poem?

 

 

 

 

 

Always Here

The idea that love makes you feel safe and as if you belong is conveyed by the author’s use of 

 
Love is knowing someone cares and will always be there. Moreover, it is that warm feeling you get 

 
 
when your loved one embraces you. However, it doesn’t have to be based on a relationship, it can be based 
on a mother and daughter connection. For many humans love is a deeper connection that we are all looking 
for in life. In I Am Offering This Poem, by Jimmy Santiago Baca, the poet is giving the idea that love is 
providing you with all that you need, for example guidance and comfort. When in love, humans tend to 
feel safe and as if they belong, knowing there is someone that’s always there that cares for them. Love is 
not something humans can just dispose of: it most likely will always be there.
 
imagery. Throughout the poem, the poet helps express the idea of feeling safe by letting us see, taste, and 
smell what satisfies us. Baca states in the third stanza, “it is a pot full of yellow corn/ to warm your belly 
in the winter” (9-10). The comforting smell of corn helps to create the thought of feeling calm, warm, and 
replete. Moreover, when the composer talks about the bright color he is comparing it to the dull white 
outside. This image is purposely created to help the reader feel that tender, secure sensation of protection. 
This is illustrating how love makes you feel safe and comfortable. In the fifth stanza, the author is portrays 
the idea that love makes you aware that you belong. He does this by allowing us to feel, see, hear, and 
smell what soothes us. Baca states, “and let you warm yourself by this fire/rest by this fire, and make you 
feel safe” (21-22). The warmth of the fire makes you want to be there. The image of the fire, hearing it 
cracking, and smelling the wood burning lets you know how safe you are, and how much you belong there. 
The author intentionally placed this image in the poem to help the individual reading experience that warm 
sensation. This is exhibiting how love places you out of harm’s way and makes you want to stay, as if you 
belong. All in all, this portrays the idea that the author’s use of imagery conveys that love makes you feel 
safe and as if you belong.
 
Love is knowing that there is that one person who will always be there to protect and care for you is 
illustrated by the poet’s use of sound devices. At some point in the poem, the artist provokes the idea of 
feeling protected by using alliteration. Baca states in the first stanza, “the cold cannot bite through” (6). 
The hard “c” sound is putting an end to something. It’s showing that every bad thing that is being done 
to them will not bring them down. The composer purposely created this use of the alliteration because he 
wants to express to the reader that he will protect them from everything that’s trying to bring them down. 
This is showing how love can protect you from oppression. In the seventh stanza, the author perpetuates 
the idea that love is also knowing that there is someone that always cares for you. He suggests this by using 
a rhyme scheme. Baca states, “and to go on living inside/ when the world outside/ no longer cares if you 
live or die” (26-28). The rhyme scheme was intentionally placed in this poem to show how harsh reality 
really is, but knowing there is someone you can always count on to be there for you. This is displaying 
the idea that love is being aware that somebody until the end of time will care for you. In conclusion, this 

- 3 -

conveys the idea that the author’s use of sound devices illustrates that love is knowing that there is that one 
person who will always be there to guard you and care for you.
            The speaker’s employment of figurative language produces the idea that love is feeling sheltered, 
and not something that you can just dispose of. In the third stanza, the poet conveys his idea that loves 
warmth makes you feel protected by the use of a metaphor. Baca states, “it is a scarf for your head, to 
wear/over your hair, to tie up around your face” (11-12). The author is comparing the scarf’s intensity to 
his love, and power to make you feel protected. His love is warmhearted, which means he can make you 
feel sheltered. In the fifth stanza, the author is expressing the idea that love is not something you can throw 
away by the use of a simile. Baca states, “tucked away like a cabin or a hogan.” (6) The artist is contrasting 
a hidden cabin in the forest to how his love is not something that will just go away. The author intended 
this simile to show how much he cares, and to let the reader know he is always there. This is showing that 
love is something you can save but not something you can dispose of. All in all, this illustrates the idea 
that the author’s use of figurative language shows that love creates a feeling of being sheltered, and not 
something that you can just toss away.
            Throughout the poem, the poet continues to illustrate the idea of humans tending to feel secure 
and as if you belong, knowing there is someone that always cares. The composer demonstrates this by 
employing imagery, sound devices and figurative language. Having realized this about life, humans learned 
that without knowing that there is someone that’s always there to pick you up when you’re down. In 
conclusion, humans may realize how deep and important love really is. 

- 4 -



