Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/ORGANIZATION04C.PDF
iDeAs 4 (set 3)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

AbsTrAcT/summAry:
The organizational structure is fairly strong, with a clear and appropriate introduction and conclusion that 
are well-written and even satisfying (the conclusion in particular). However, this paper cannot score a five 
because the transitions, while adequate, do not effectively contribute to the writer’s ideas. 

criTerion 1: sTrucTure
The introduction and conclusion are appropriately structured and even inviting (which fits the criterion 
of a five). The first sentence of the introduction (“At the soul of every classic tragic play is suffering and 
a tragic hero”) is inviting and creative. While the sentence fluency isn’t spectacular, the writer does a 
good job of opening with a broad context and narrowing the focus to the topic of the paper: “The tragedy 
Antigone is no different [...].” The conclusion is also clear and appropriate; again, it goes beyond the 
perfunctory, repetitive conclusion to add some fresh sentences and ideas (“he does realize his mistakes as 
he nears the end, but it is too late to repair what he did”), while still summarizing the position of the paper 
(that Creon is the tragic hero).
The organization of paragraphs is purposeful; the writer moves from secondary characters to main 
characters, disproving each case before arriving at the paper’s main point.  While this is purposeful is 
intentional, a better paper would have the ideas within paragraphs weave and build upon each other and 
refer to earlier concepts.  For example, the paragraph on Creon could reference an earlier observation about 
Antigone in order the emphasize the paragraph’s veracity (For example: “Unlike Antigone, whose suicide 
falls to the responsibility of the death of her brother, Creon makes the key decisions in the play, proving 
[...].”)
Moreover, this paper shows intentional choice to put the thesis and assertions at the END of the paper and 
paragraphs (even if this choice is teacher-directed). This structure is an effective and intentional deviation 
from the AF traditional structure, but still cannot score a 6 in structure because it does not lead to strong 
substantiation, as evidenced by the times the paper slides into plot summary.  Regardless of substantiation, 
however, this choice simultaneously makes this paper different and pulls the reader through the text. (We 
are not arguing for this type of structure , but it’s clearly intentional and effective.)

criTerion 2: FLow
The transitions in the paper feel natural and accurate; this paper lacks the artificial insertion of transitions 
from which many papers at this level suffer. However, these transitions are not strong or numerous; they 
certainly do not advance the logic of the argument clearly. For example:
(Original student text):

At this point he is trying to express his sorrow, but his father’s mistake dampers him by ignoring him. 
His despair soon drives him to take his own life so that he can be with his bride in death. When Creon 
tells him he must watch Antigone die, and Haemon responds, “That sight I’ll never see. Nor from this 
hour/shall you see me again.” (147). This expression of sorrow shows Harmon’s noble aspects and 
the extent to which he suffers. Haemon’s tragic end seems to fit perfectly with what Aristotle would  

- 1 -

define as a tragic hero; his suggering leads him to die beside his bride, waiting till Creon was in sight 
before stabbing himself with his sword. Ut Haemon’s death was not caused by his own mistakes but 
those of his father, which excludes him from being the tragic hero. Haemon does not control his own 
fate.

(Edited for improved transitions):

At this point he is trying to express his sorrow, but his father’s mistake dampers him by ignoring 
him. More tragically, his despair soon drives him to take his own life so that he can be with his bride 
in death. When Creon tells him he must watch Antigone die, and Haemon responds, “That sight 
I’ll never see. Nor from this hour/shall you see me again.” (147). This expression of sorrow shows 
Harmon’s noble aspects and the extent to which he suffers. Interestingly, Haemon’s tragic end seems 
to fit perfectly with what Aristotle would define as a tragic hero; his suffering leads him to die beside 
his bride, waiting till Creon was in sight before stabbing himself with his sword. However, Haemon’s 
death was not caused by his own mistakes but those of his father, which excludes him from being the 
tragic hero. In other words, Haemon does not control his own fate. [I might also switch these last two 
concepts for a more logical progression.]

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -



