Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/ORGANIZATION00.PDF
ORGANIZATION 0
Analysis: Lit - Oscar Wao

ABSTRACT/SUMMARY:
While body paragraphs are present, they do not include most of the core components, and must  
score a zero.

CRITERION  1: STRUCTURE
Body paragraphs do not include the core components of a proper academic paragraph. Specifically, there 
is no direct evidence in paragraphs 1 and 3, and where there is indirect evidence, it blends into summary 
without a clear citation of evidence and then writer interpretation or clarification. However, overall 
organization of essay is reasonable in terms of a 5-paragraph structure.

CRITERION 2: FLOW
While scoring this category is moot as it cannot score a 1 in structure, there are some rough transitions 
(“Moreover,” “At this point”).  However, these must be counted as “rough” because they are repetitive and 
awkward at times. For example:

As Junot Diaz shows, Oscar is doing a lot of reflecting and trying to understand why everything 
happened the way it did. Moreover, Oscar was a player so he couldn’t let this affect him.

Nevertheless, Oscar was now a teenager.

Both of these transitions are rough because they do not clearly advance the argument. In the first example, 
moreover indicated that the author wants to expand on a core point, but the two ideas (that Oscar is 
reflective and a player)  are not clearly related. In the second example, nevertheless should signal a logical 
relationship where something happened despite an earlier roadblock, but it’s not clear to the reader why 
this word was used. For that reason, transitions are rough, but not well used.

- 1 -

Essay: Lit - Oscar Wao
PBA #1 Question – 
How does Junot Diaz’ emphasis on the importance of connecting with others influence Oscar Wao’s  
coming of age?

PBA#1

 
Oscar is finally not a virgin, he finally came of age. In The Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao Junot Diaz 
shows Oscar coming of age. As Oscar was growing up he went through many stages. He went from being 
cute and getting all the girls, to having pimples on his face. Oscar came of age because of the experiences 
he faced and the challenges he overcame.
  When Oscar was younger, he had all the girls. Although at this age Oscar didn’t need to understand 
how he feels about girls. There was one break up that made him realize that he has feelings and it hurts 
when you lose something that is important to you. As Junot Diaz shows Oscar is doing a lot of reflecting 
and trying to understand why everything happened the way it did. Moreover, Oscar was a player so he 
couldn’t let this affect him.
 
Nevertheless, Oscar was now a teenager. He only had two friends that didn’t have much in common 
with him. At this stage nobody really wanted to talk to him. As said in the book, “Oscar was a poor excuse 
for a Dominican boy.” At this point since nobody really associated themselves with him, he got fat. Since 
Oscar was so to himself, he went unnoticeable. Oscar was coming of age because he found things that were 
more important to him. He, at this point decided to take a different path in life.
 
Oscar was now an adult; he knew what he wanted and how he was going to get it. Meeting someone 
that understood him, and liked him for him was going to be a good relationship. Going to college, Oscar 
met a girl named Ybon. Ybon made Oscar experience life. At this point Oscar started to reflect and think 
of what he could have done to make his life better. College was the breaking point for Oscar; he had mare 
independence and freedom. He wasn’t trapped in a shell anymore; he started making decisions on his own. 
He realized he can make his life anything that he wanted it to be. Everything that Oscar experienced at this 
time showed him growing up and coming of age.
 
In conclusion, in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao Junot Diaz shows Oscar coming of age. Al 
the experiences that he faced taught him new things. This made him realize his life is in his hands. He had 
total control and that’s what he had to learn.

- 2 -



