Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/POSITION05.PDF
PoSiTioN 5

Analysis: History - Necessary Revolution

SummARy/ABSTRACT:
This paper cannot be a 6 because the thesis statement does not address the full breadth and depth of the 
assertions (it covers the breadth, but not the depth). In  addition, the assertions are not complex enough to 
earn a 6.
The sophistication of ideas in this paper could reasonably lead to a stronger thesis statement and assertions; 
in other words, this writer has all the tools in place in this paper to get a 6 or above in position.

CRiTeRioN 1—THeSiS:
The thesis reads as follows (at the bottom of the second introductory paragraph):

No matter how much they may have aided the Americans, the Parliament had no right to strip them 
of their liberty. The three primary events that portray their just mutiny were: the Navigation Acts, the 
Stamp Act, and the Boston Tea Party.

This thesis statement answers the prompt directly, is defensible (presents an argument), is clarified in scope 
(i.e., we know the writer will use the three events to justify her position), and the ideas and the writer 
are clear. However, this thesis statement does not cover the full depth of the assertions. There are a few 
different ways the writer could touch on the depth of the assertions: she could articulate how the events 
listed show that their mutiny was just; she could articulate what “strip them of their liberty” more clearly 
means; she could address the philosophical argument of the other side (as this is clearly an important part 
of defending this particular prompt and thesis statement).
Such a thesis statement might read as follows: “The British governed the American colonies with complete 
disregard of the colonists’ natural human rights, viewing the colonies as slaves to the British interest and 
not as an extension of the empire itself. Therefore, this self-serving governance (showed most clearly in the 
examples of The Navigation Act, the Stamp Act, and the Boston Tea Party) removed the Americans from 
any social contract with their mother country and made their revolution justified.”
Note that all of the ideas in that improved thesis statement above are present in the ideas of the paper—
perhaps this student would be better served to rewrite their thesis statement in the revision process after the 
draft was finished and she had fully articulated her ideas.

CRiTeRioN 2—ASSeRTioNS:
Assertions in the paper are also clearly defensible, provide distinct support for the thesis,  clear,  and 
clarified in scope. However, as written, they are not  appropriately complex. They read as follows:

• 

• 

The Navigation Acts were a clear example of the colonists’ validation behind the American 
Revolution because Britain was trying to oppress them by cutting off their ability to trade with 
other countries.
The Stamp Act was merely one event that demonstrated Britain’s unjust acts that led to the 
American Revolution because Great Britain unjustly forced “taxation without representation” on 

- 1 -

the colonies.
The Boston Tea Party was the result of the growing fury of Americans, due to Britain’s corrupt 
and unreasonable actions.

• 

While the fluency and sophistication of writing could be improved in these assertions, they are certainly 
distinct assertions that outline separate supportive ideas to contribute to the thesis statement. The first 
two assertions in particular encompass several related, fairly sophisticated and argumentative ideas 
that drive the paragraphs (for example: that the Navigation Acts were an example of the “validation” of 
the Revolution, linking this to the idea that the British were “trying to oppress them,” and defining the 
unjustness as the “cutting off their ability to trade with other countries”).
However, this is not to say that these assertions couldn’t be improved. In particular, the sequence of 
assertions, while chronological, does not “effectively advance the argument.” A more deliberate sequence 
and organizational approach enhance the clarity of the argument.
Additionally, the first assertion could more clearly link the Navigation Act to the important idea that British 
empire treated the colonies as financial feeders to the empire, and not an extension of the empire itself (as 
opposed to saying they were “trying to oppress them”). The articulation in the second assertion could also 
be slightly clearer and more directly linked to the thesis statement. A reworded assertion might read as 
follows: “The Stamp Act was a clear example of the British policy of taxing the colonists without allowing 
them a voice or representation in the government; this unjust treatment breaks the social contract between 
them and justifies rebellion.”
In particular, the third assertion is the weakest of all. The assertion summarizes how the Boston Tea Party 
came to be “...was the result of the growing fury of Americans” but has vague claims “Britain’s [...]
unreasonable actions” and does not clearly define an argument (other than the inferred one that an injustice 
violating human rights has taken place). There are some very sophisticated ideas in this paragraph (that the 
Boston Tea party served as a declaration of war; the evidence cited to support this), and the writer should 
be able to better articulate the assertion.
However, as it stands, the thesis statement and the assertions all match the criteria for a 5. 

- 2 -

essay: History - Necessary Revolution

 

 

 

      The Necessary American Revolution

The American Revolution was the rebellion of British colonies established in the United States against 

 
 
  
A revolution is defined as a rebellion or an uprising of a people against a government that they find 
unjust. This upheaval tends to occur when a social contract, an intangible, unwritten agreement between 
the citizens and the government, has been violated, causing outrage amongst the citizens. There were 
two prestigious philosophers that had differing theories concerning this social contract. The philosopher 
Thomas Hobbes believed that in return for protection, the people gave up their rights to the government. 
John Locke, on the other hand, believed, “Men have rights by their nature” that cannot be taken away 
regardless of their agreement with the government. Clearly, all humans’ inalienable rights cannot simply 
be seized by the government, and if someone attempts to expunge these rights, the people have “a liberty 
to kill the aggressor” (Locke). Natural rights are civil liberties that no one has the power to simply steal as 
part of an “agreement.” 
 
English Parliament. After the French and Indian War, the relationship between the Americans and the 
British went sour.  Britain enforced restrictions on where the people could settle in America. Parliament 
was constantly creating taxes without their consent and forcing the colonists’ to pay them anyway. The 
Americans were fed up with Britain trying to strip them of their liberty. All of this injustice the Americans 
faced led to their desire to be liberated from Britain. Since Britain’s actions practically dehumanized 
Americans, they had the right to go against the government, therefore justifying the American Revolution. 
Hobbes’ was right that people must give up liberties to the government in exchange for protection; 
however, Locke’s theory that people have certain rights that cannot be taken away overpowers the 
agreement between the two parties. All people retain the “right to life and liberty,” (Locke) as Locke said in 
his social contract theory, “And hence it is that he who attempts to get another man into his absolute power 
does thereby put himself into a state of war with him” (Locke). Some historians believe that the colonists 
in America during the 18th century were in the wrong when they rebelled against Britain and started the 
American Revolution. Even though Britain did help the colonists’ get established in America, the colonists’ 
rebellion was indeed justified. No matter how much they may have aided the Americans, the Parliament 
had no right to strip them of their liberty. The three primary events that portray their just mutiny were: the 
Navigation Acts, the Stamp Act, and the Boston Tea Party.
 
Revolution because Britain was trying to oppress them by cutting off their ability to trade with other 
countries. These acts put restraints on who the colonists could trade with, limiting them to Great Britain. 
They were practically prohibited from trading with any other countries outside of their mother country. 
In the philosopher-economist Adam Smith’s book Wealth of Nations, he states that “To prohibit a great 
people, however, from making all that they can of every part of their own produce, or from employing 
their stock and their industry in the way that they judge most advantageous to themselves is a manifest 
violation of the most sacred right of mankind” (6). Britain deprived the Americans from taking full 
advantage of their “produce.” This deprivation of prosperity denied the Americans of an inalienable right: 

The Navigation Acts were a clear example of the colonists’ validation behind the American 

- 3 -

The Stamp Act was merely one event that demonstrated Britain’s unjust acts that led to the American 

liberty. In Locke’s theory, if a government attempts to take “absolute power” (Locke) over a people, 
they are setting themselves up to be attacked. This was the case with Britain and the Americans. Britain 
overstepped the power that the colonists had given to them, and basically asked for all of the disobedience 
that followed in the colonies. In a forum with Berkeley, the Governor of Virginia, a London official asked, 
“’What advantages or improvements do you observe that may be gained to your trade or navigation?’”(5). 
Berkeley responded saying, “’None, unless we had liberty to transport our pipe staves, timber, and corn 
to other places besides the King’s dominions” (5). Britain’s limits placed on the colonists’ commercial 
relations with other countries did not better the economy or conditions in America. It was a selfish act to 
protect the affluence of Britain and prevent other European countries from gaining a prestige greater than 
their own. When the act was passed, the success of the colonies was not kept in mind. King George was 
only worried about the English economy. Since the mother country was no longer protecting the colonies, 
why would she expect the colonies to abide by her rule? Britain was no longer holding up their side of the 
contract, so the colonies were not obligated to respect the agreement any longer.
 
Revolution because Great Britain unjustly forced “taxation without representation” on the colonies. In 
the House of Commons’ forum with Benjamin Franklin, he was asked if the colonies were “reimbursed 
by Parliament,” and his answer was, “’We were only reimbursed what, in your opinion, we had advanced 
beyond our proposition, or beyond what might reasonably be expected from us; and it was a very small 
part of what we spent’”(5). During the Seven Years’ War, the colonies spent millions and the Stamp 
Act was only stripping them of even more money that they would never be compensated for. Britain 
took advantage of them, supposedly paying them back when the colonies were not getting back nearly 
as much as what they had been forced to give to Britain. In the non-importation agreement in the book 
The Constitutions of the Several Independent States of America, the people stated, “His Majesty’s 
American subjects are oppressed; and having taken under our most serious deliberation the state of the 
whole continent, find that the present unhappy situation of our affairs is occasioned by a ruinous system 
of colony administration, adopted by the British Ministry about the year 1763, evidently calculated for 
enslaving these colonies and with them, the British empire”(10). The Stamp Act was more of a burden on 
the colonies than anything else. It made them slaves to Europe and prevented them from creating a profit 
for their own country. Their production in America was simply being used to increase England’s wealth, 
defeating their hope to be a prosperous nation. Britain took the colonies under their control, rather than 
just providing them with security. Since Great Britain had, once again, transgressed their control of the 
colonies, the Americans had every right to revolt. Therefore, all of their actions that followed after Britain’s 
wrongdoings were justified.
 
and unreasonable actions. Britain had held them down for so long, and they could not bear it anymore. 
Before the Boston Tea Party occurred, the Tarring and Feathering Committee wrote a letter to the men 
collecting taxes on tea stating that, “In the first place, we must tell you that Pennsylvanians are, to a man, 
passionately fond of freedom, the birthright of all Americans…sincerely believe no power has a right to 
tax them without their consent”(14). The Pennsylvanians, along with all other Americans, felt that they 
were entitled to a say in taxes imposed on them. They deserve their freedom and should not be subjugated 
by such an unruly government. Britain violated the natural rights of the Americans that all human beings 

The Boston Tea Party was the result of the growing fury of Americans, due to Britain’s corrupt 

- 4 -

automatically have. The tax on tea without the colonists’ consent was, therefore, Britain’s declaration of 
war to the colonies. In a letter between two business associates, John Andrews and William Barrell, John 
Andrews says, “However it is the opinion of most people that we stand an equal chance now, whether 
troops are sent in consequence of it or not”(16).  The colonies were no longer willing to let British 
Parliament control their lives. They felt their voice needed to be heard despite the consequences. They 
had no representation in Parliament which resulted in the constant injustice they faced. Their only option 
to gain back the inalienable rights they had been deprived of was to rebel against the Parliament who was 
guilty of massacring their liberty as human beings.
The American Revolution was more than justified; it was necessary. John Locke’s social contract 
 
theory was that people have the right to rebel against a government that is not doing their job properly 
or attempting to take absolute power. Britain had failed to secure America; Britain tore them down by 
restricting them. In addition, Britain had attempted to Americans slaves to their mother country rather 
than an extension of their mother country. Clearly, the only way to prove their strength to the tyrannical 
Parliament was to rebel against them. The three key events that illustrate the Americans’ rationale for 
rebelling are the Navigation Acts, the Stamp Act and the Boston Tea Party.

- 5 -



