Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/POSITION-5-SET-1.PDF
Position 5 (Set 1)

Analysis: Lit - Watsons Go to Birmingham
Position: Thesis

This paper scores a 5 for the thesis. While the simplicity of the prompt lends itself to this level of success, this thesis, “Throughout the
story, Christopher Paul Curtis ﬁrst portrays Byron as a selﬁsh and cruel character, but by the end, Byron changes into a more mature 13
year old,” is defensible, comprehensive of the entire book, and focused on how Byron changes. The lack of analysis keeps this thesis at
a 5 versus a 6.
Position: Assertion

This paper scores a 5 for the assertions. All of the topic sentences are directly relevant to the thesis, even though the second body
paragraph starts with a topic sentence versus an assertion: “As the Watsons continue their trip to Birmingham, Alabama, Byron starts
to show another side of his personality.” This is not an assertion because it is not really defensible. There is no claim about what causes
this change or how he changes. With two out of the three topic sentences being assertions, this qualiﬁes as most of the topic sentences
being with assertions. Additionally, because they are arranged chronologically, there is an attempted sequence of assertions.

Essay: Lit - Watsons Go to Birmingham

Prompt: Describe how Bryon’s personality changes throughout the novel.

Byron Watson is a very cruel, selﬁsh, troublesome character in the book, “The Watsons Go to Birmingham-
1963” by Christopher Paul Curtis. When the Watsons travel to Birmingham, Alabama to drop him off to their
Grandma Sands to set Byron straight, Byron is changed forever. Throughout the story, Christopher Paul
Curtis ﬁrst portrays Byron as a selﬁsh and cruel character, but by the end, Byron changes into a more mature
13 year old.

In the beginning of the novel, Byron is cruel. Byron hurts other things and people and thinks it is funny. For
example, Byron hurts Larry Dunn because he stole Kenny’s gloves and kind of laughs about. This shows that
Byron is cruel because he beats up Larry Dunn for something kind of petty like stealing his brother’s gloves.
Also Byron walks in circles because he knows Kenny is trying to talk to him sideways. This shows that

Byron is cruel because he is trying to make Kenny dizzy. In addition to this, Byron punches Kenny in the arm
when Kenny didn’t do anything at all. This shows Byron is cruel because he punches Kenny for no apparent
reason. Furthermore, Byron calls Kenny names like Pointdexter. This shows that Byron is cruel because he
calls Kenny names. To add on, Byron also throws a cookie at a bird and kills it. This shows that Byron is
cruel because Byron is showing animal cruelty.

As the Watsons continue their trip to Birmingham, Alabama, Byron starts to show another side of his
personality. There are several moments when the Watsons are in Birmingham that Byron acts out of
character. For example, Byron acts out of character, by laughing and talking with Mr. Roberts and his dad and
is even interested in Mr. Robert’s story. In the past, Byron would never be interested in what adults had to
say, but now he is. Also, when Grandma Sands tells them about the dangers of Collier’s Landing, Byron
listens to directions and doesn’t go there. This shows that Byron is acting out of character because he is not
being deﬁnt and is following directions. Furthermore, Byron even saves his brother when he is trapped in the
whirlpool. Before Byron didn’t even care about his brother. When Byron saves his brother he even hugs
Kenny and kept on crying and saying, “Kenny, Kenny, Kenny” (179). This shows Byron has really changed
ever since they got to Birmingham.

At the end of the novel, Byron is kind. Byron is being kind to Kenny. For example, Byron is doing things for
Kenny like pour out his cereal and milk. This shows that Byron is kind because he is doing things for his
brother. Also, Byron asks Kenny to watch TV with him. In addition to this, Byron lets Kenny play basketball
with him. This shows Byron is being kind because before he would never let Kenny play basketball with him.

The character Byron changes signiﬁcantly in the novel, The Watsons Go to Birmingham- 1963. Christopher
Paul Curtis ﬁrst describes Byron as a cruel and selﬁsh character. However, when the Watsons go on a real trip
to visit Grandma Sands, Byron goes through a lot like the bombing. So, at the end of the book, Byron has
become a more mature 13 year old.



