Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/POSITION08.PDF
POSITION 8

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
If the thesis statement is taken as the first and last sentence of the opening paragraph, the thesis statement 
and assertions fit all the criterion for an 8. In particular, the assertions are exemplary in terms of their 
complexity and specific support for the thesis.

CRITERION 1: THESIS:
While structured unconventionally to AF, the thesis statement meets all the criteria for an 8.
A thesis statement is defensible if a) the opposing argument can reasonably be argued (even if it’s the 
weaker argument) and b) it is not an obvious truth about the book. For example, for Les Miserables, the 
thesis statement “Jean Valjean suffers in his life” is NOT a defensible thesis statement (although it is 
certainly a position, in a way that “Jean Valjean is the main protagonist of Les Miserables” is not). The 
fact that Jean Valjean suffers is an obvious truth about the text that no one could reasonably contradict, 
although as a stand-alone, esoteric argument, it might appear defensible. (To follow in this vein, the thesis 
statement “Jean Valjean is a sympathetic character” is defensible-- even complex-- although not nuanced.)
This particular thesis statement is defensible in the sense that you could certainly argue that Yeats and 
Shelley are not both interested in the struggle between order and chaos, that their poetic structure do not 
support the meaning, or that they do not arrive at different conclusions. Not only are all these opposing 
arguments (the test for a “defensible” thesis) possible on a literal sense, but are also possible in the context 
of the poem. A different writer could argue this opposing point and make an equally fine paper. In other 
words, the thesis statement is not obvious to a reader. (For example, an obvious, one-story thesis might 
state that the imagery associated with the “shape” in the second stanza of “The Second Coming” suggested 
that Yeats did not feel positively about it. This is an obvious point of the poem that can’t be argued 
against.)
The statement is also nuanced in the sense it makes a small but important distinction between how the 
poets are similar and different -- i.e., they both illuminate and define the world around them by a common 
theme (the struggle between order and chaos), yet they use different poetic forms in different ways to 
express their meanings and come to different conclusions. In addition, the scope of this thesis statement 
certainly encompasses the depth and breadth of assertions, nearly all of which are about how a specific 
poetic device or choice imply a certain theme or meaning. As the reader sees later in the statement, this is 
an extremely insightful thesis statement that requires a high level of independent critical analysis. (In some 
ways, this thesis statement is proven to be insightful after the reader judges how well the writer proves the 
thesis statement. )
The ideas and writing are precise and concise, but word choice is not a particularly strong suit of the 
thesis statement. If the rubric had language about “the best possible word choice” for its meaning, it 
might be ranked lower. For example, this reader wishes the phrase “there is also almost no overlap in the 
ways” were tweaked to be more specific; I also wish I knew the “different conclusions” right off the bat. 
(Although another reader might enjoy the discovery process of  the writer’s reveal of the conclusions.) 

- 1 -

However, in general, the thesis statement is precise and concise. There are no wasted ideas and the 
meaning is immediately clear. (Note that word choice will be graded later in the rubric.)

CRITERION 2: ASSERTIONS
Every assertion is complex, defensible, precise, and concise. Two strengths of the assertions are their 
purposeful progression to advance the argument; the writer builds every assertion and paragraph upon 
the ideas of the previous one and constantly references the earlier groundwork of the argument he lays. 
Every assertion is clearly distinct support for the thesis as they each articulate a different poetic device or 
language choice made by the poet that contributes to a specific meaning (one exception noted below):

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

One of the most notable elements in “Ozymandias” is the use of hard and soft alliteration to imply 
the dominance of the immortal desert over the mortal achievements of mankind.
Another crucial element in “Ozymandias” is the vertical symmetry of structure Shelley employs to 
flesh out the meaning of his sonnet.
To further reinforce his assertion
unique rhyme scheme.
Finally, the rhythm of Shelly’s “Ozymandias” reinforces the underlying message concerning the 
fragility of man’s accomplishments.
In contrast
methods through which he communicates that message are also very different.
°  --> This assertion is broader in scope because it introduces the second poem for the first time 

, not only is the meaning of Yeats’ “The Second Coming” rather different, but the 

 that true order is immortality and infinity, Shelley uses a 

and outlines the subargument that will follow.

Having anchored his poem firmly in the political reality of 1918, Yeats 
Shelley by looking to the future, not to the past, to shed light on the struggle between chaos and 
order. 
°  --> while this assertion does not explicitly state a language choice, it still fully supports  

further moves away from 

the thesis.

Yeats too uses soft alliteration to describe the desert in his poem, but
to emphasize not the power of the desert, but rather the uncertainty surrounding his vision.
Finally, unlike “Ozamandias
carry meaning.

,” the very dimensions of the stanzas in “The Second Coming” 

 unlike Shelley he uses it 

[Bold language represents pieces of assertions that build on previous arguments; italics are my notes.]
This “logic glue” illustrates the purposeful build of subarguments in the paper. Furthermore, the scope 
of each assertion is clear. The reader does not wonder what the paragraph will prove; every assertion 
is precise. Most assertions are usually slightly more specific in either the meaning or language device 
(for example, the second assertion does not state the exact meaning vertical symmetry conveys, and the 
third assertions does specify clearly the “unique rhyme scheme”), but that is a writer’s choice that adds 
discovery to the paragraph. However, every reader should note that this is only done successfully when 
the overall ideas and complexity of the argument are as nuanced as these.  If a lower writer employed this 
strategy with a less complex paper, it would likely do the assertions a disservice.

- 2 -

Essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -

- 13 -



