Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/POSITION06.PDF
PoSiTion 6

Analysis: History - Locke

ABSTRACT/SUmmARy:
The thesis and assertions are strong; they meet all the criteria for both categories but cannot score a 7 
because they are not sufficiently precise and concise.

CRiTeRion 1: THeSiS
The thesis reads as follows:

Ultimately, Locke asserts that people enter into a binding social contract so that the government can 
preserve the people’s natural rights. Locke comes to this conclusion by inferring that humans are 
naturally wild and out of control: if humans were to govern themselves, then the end result would 
be chaos and destruction. In addition, Locke believes that the state of nature is too dangerous, and 
therefore a systematic government, determined by the people, is essential for society.

This thesis statement is nuanced  because it draws the connection between Locke’s various beliefs to one 
big conclusion (social contract). It supports the full depth and breadth of the assertions; each assertion 
presents a an arguments that provides more context to the broader thesis argument above. Not only does it 
cover all of the assertions, but it covers the scope (the depth) of the assertions.
For example, consider the third assertion:

Locke suggest that the purpose of government is for the “mutual preservation” (Locke Sec. 123) of 
the citizens’ property by submitting human will to a systematic government with limits.

The depth of the assertion-- that human will must be submitted to the government for mutual preservation-- 
is completely “covered” by the thesis statement that a government is essential for society because of the 
danger. Therefore, the thesis statement covers the depth of the assertion.
In addition, the thesis statement is clarified in scope because it explains WHY Locke comes to this 
conclusion and WHY the people are out of control.
The ideas are precise in this statement, but the writing is not yet concise. (Examples of precise ideas: 
“binding social contract,” “preserve the people’s natural rights,” humans are naturally wild and out of 
control,” “state of nature is too dangerous,” “a systematic government, determined by the people, is 
essential to society.”)
However, the writing is not yet concise:

• 
• 

“Locke comes to this conclusion by inferring that…” (wordy phrasing)
“In addition...”( not the correct logical transition to the last sentence of the thesis)

- 1 -

CRiTeRion 2: ASSeRTionS
Overall, the assertions are defensible, provide distinct support for the thesis, are clarified in scope, and are 
logically ordered to advance the argument. The main issue focuses on precision and clarity of writing.
The assertions read as follows:

• 

• 

• 

Locke describes humans as rash and untamed beings who are driven by their desire to preserve 
their liberty and property.
Since rules are not enforced in the state of nature, Locke believes that humans are unstable 
and unsafe; furthermore, the state of nature is the reason for fear because of its lack of a higher 
authority, which causes people to break the law of nature.
Locke suggest that the purpose of government is for the “mutual preservation” (Locke Sec. 123) 
of the citizens’ property by submitting human will to a systematic government with limits.

In assertion #1, the clause “who are driven by their desire to preserve their liberty and property” explains 
the WHY, which makes the assertion clarified in scope. (Assertion #2 is similar.)
In terms of the clarity of ideas and writing, the second independent clause of assertion #2 is not particularly 
precise or concise.
Assertion #3 is clarified in scope but additional clarification would enhance the writing and ideas.
 For example, it could read: 
“...government with limits; this is to say that people create a social contract with a government for the 
protection of their rights and if the government fails to uphold their side of the contract, the deal is 
nullified.”
Some concision might be needed on the rewritten assertion, but the extra independent clause would clarify 
the why behind the assertion.  

- 2 -

essay: History - Locke
Prompt: The most prominent social contract theorists include Thomas Hobbes and John Locke.  This 
paper asks you to examine Locke’s musings on the social contract track the logic of his argument.  Locke 
draws certain conclusions about the structure and purpose of government; this deduction is based on his 
analysis and assumptions of human nature as well as the state of nature.  Your task is to develop a thesis 
that speaks to the logical development of Locke’s ideas.  Your response should consider his formulation  
of the following:

• 
• 
• 

Human nature
The state of nature
The purpose and structure of good government

 

 

 

 

   Locke’s View on Humanity

 
During the time of the Enlightenment, John Locke, an English philosopher, wrote The Second Treatise 

 
 
of Government.  This essay was written in response to Thomas Hobbes’s essay called The Leviathan in 
order to convince society that a government with limits was needed instead of a disorderly state of nature. 
Ultimately, Locke asserts that people enter into a binding social contract so that the government can 
preserve the people’s natural rights. Locke comes to this conclusion by inferring that humans are naturally 
wild and out of control: if humans were to govern themselves, then the end result would be chaos and 
destruction. In addition, Locke believes that the state of nature is too dangerous, and therefore a systematic 
government, determined by the people, is essential for society.
 
Locke describes humans as rash and untamed beings who are driven by their desire to preserve their 
liberty and property. According to Locke, humans are naturally independent and free to do as they please. 
As a result, “every one, as he is bound to preserve himself, and not to quit his station willfully, so by the 
like reason, when his own preservation comes not in completion, ought he, as much as he can preserve 
the rest of mankind” (Locke Sec.6). Humans are completely independent and must learn how to preserve 
themselves. Since humans have to preserve themselves, they will go to far lengths and do whatever it 
takes to reach this goal; this goal leads humans to invade other’s liberty and property. Naturally, humans 
have laws, but they do not always follow them, which demonstrates that they are similar to animals in 
that they are free and subject to their own whim. Locke declares that “for all being kings as much as he 
every man is equal and…the enjoyment of the property he has in this state is very unsafe, very unsecure” 
(Locke Sec.123). Here, Locke implies that humans act as “kings” as a result of being allowed to govern 
themselves. This ultimate freedom causes these uncontrolled people to invade each other and make the 
state unsafe because they have the same desires as “kings”: they have the desire for more land and for more 
power. In conclusion, humans are audacious beings who are motivated by their desire to preserve their 
rights, liberty, and their own lives.
 
Since rules are not enforced in the state of nature, Locke believes that humans are unstable and 
unsafe; furthermore, the state of nature is the reason for fear because of its lack of a higher authority, 
which causes people to break the law of nature. Some people suggest that the state of nature has no flaws. 
In addition, these people wonder, “If man, in the state of nature, be so free, as has been said; if he be 

- 3 -

absolute lord of his own person and possessions, equal to the greatest and subject to nobody, why will he 
part with this freedom? Why will he give up this empire and subject himself to the dominion and control 
of any other power?”(Locke Sec. 123).  In the state of nature, humans possess complete freedom and 
control; therefore, they are not subject to anyone else. Thus, people wonder why humans would relinquish 
this great opportunity and privilege just to then be put under a government.  There are, however, negative 
outcomes in the state of nature. At some point the state of nature gets out of controlled and too dangerous 
for people to live in. According to Locke, “…the enjoyment of the property he has in this state is very 
unsafe, very unsecure. This makes him willing to quit a condition which, however free, is full of fears and 
continual danger: and it is not without reason that he seeks out, and is willing to join society with others…” 
(Locke Sec.123). The state of nature contains the ability to become “unsafe” and dangerous, and as a 
result man gets a desire to surrender the way he lives so he can join a society. Since man has the freedom 
of choice, they decide to not obey the laws of nature, which leads people to make bad decision and create 
violence. Hence, the state of nature is something that will eventually get out of control to the point where 
it will need to be destroyed. In return for its destruction man can come a join a “society” and work together 
to make a stable government and civilization. Locke, however, does not believe that there should be any 
type of government.
Locke suggest that the purpose of government is for the “mutual preservation” (Locke Sec. 123) of 
 
the citizens’ property by submitting human will to a systematic government with limits. According Locke, 
men do unite into a commonwealth just for peace like Hobbes believes. Locke states, “The great chief 
end therefore, of man uniting into a commonwealth, and putting themselves under government is the 
preservation of their property” (Locke Sec. 123). The main reason why men want to join a society is so that 
mankind can “preserve” their property. This will cause them to not take extreme measures like taking over 
other people’s land just so they can protect their lives and rights. However, Locke does not mean any type 
of government. Instead of a monarchy or absolutism, Locke believes in a systematic government that has 
a limited amount of power that can also be changed. Locke’s opinion is that if the government is not doing 
its job, the people can change it. Locke writes, “they forfeit the power the people had put in their hands for 
quite the contrary ends and it develops to the people, who have a right to resume their original liberty, and 
by the establishment of a new legislative (such as they think fit)” (Locke Sec.222). Thus, if the legislative 
abuses its power or does not preserve the people’s property, the government must give up their power, and 
give it to the people so they can change it. By having a good structure, specifically a structure that can be 
changed, society is able to run smoothly and the people’s goals and desires will be gained.
 
the state of nature was negative, and why a temporary systematic government was needed. This idea 
inspired the American colonies, which is now the United States, to go against the British and make their 
own government that is restrained by limits. This way there is a Locke on the amount of power government 
can have.

Thanks to the ingenious philosopher, John Locke, everyone was able to see why human nature and  

- 4 -



