Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/POSITION02.PDF
PosItIon 2

Analysis: History - Ingredients Revolution

AbstRAct/summARy:
The thesis statement is relevant to the prompt, and all assertions support the thesis. The two criteria that 
prevent Position from scoring a 3 are the defensibility of both the thesis statement and assertions, and the 
lack of scope in all of the assertions.

cRIteRIon 1: tHesIs
Ideas and writing in the thesis statement are understandable. The thesis statement is slightly defensible. 
Truly defensible thesis statements can not state obvious truths, and the three ideas presented in this 
statement (the uniting cause, a faithful group of followers, and a determined leader) are obvious truths 
about revolutions that do not challenge or re-define common knowledge about revolutions. However, one 
could make the slight argument that not all revolutions need one cause or a determined leader (as with the 
2011 Egyptian revolution). However, that allowance gives this writer credit for a complexity of thought 
that the writer has clearly not yet developed, so this would not count as defensible.
To further consider the idea of defensibility of arguments, consider the following three thesis statements 
about the Egyptian Revolution of 2011.
example #1: In the “Arab Spring” of 2011, online social media played a major role in communication 
about the revolution.
--> this is a FACT about the revolution that is not defensible on any level; no one can dispute this 
statement.

example #2: In the “Arab Spring” of 2011, communication via online social media was the primary 
driving force in the downfall of the current government.

--> While this statement is an improvement on the previous in that it makes an evaluative judgment 
about the defining factor of the revolution, it is still a commonly accepted fact about revolution that 
few people could dispute; it is a low-level example of a defensible thesis statement.

example #3: In the “Arab Spring” of 2011, the unprecedented role of online social media provided a 
blueprint of what will be a new era of governmental change-- a successful revolution with no leader other 
than the voice of the masses.

--> There are several aspects of this thesis statement that make it defensible:

1. 
2. 
3. 

It qualifies the revolution as “successful”
It argues that this revolution will be a blueprint for future revolutions, rather than a fluke
It makes the claim that there was no real leader in the revolution; while it’s a universal truth 
that there is no singular, highly publicized leader in the revolution, a different writer could find 
a few key leaders and argue that their work was more behind the scenes.

cRIteRIon 2: AsseRtIons
The assertions are understandable and support the thesis statement. The thesis statement lists the three 
ingredients of a revolution, and the three topic sentences each present one of the ingredients.
This essay fails to score a 3 because the assertions are not all defensible. In addition, the second assertion 

- 1 -

fails to make an argument at all (defensible or not): “Secondly, a faithful group of followers can take the 
revolution very far.” This is a fact; it is not an opinion or an argument. You cannot argue the opposite 
(namely, that a faithful group of followers can not take a revolution very far). In addition, the first assertion 
is an extremely weak assertion that is close to basic fact. There are a few examples of the counterargument 
(that you do not need a leader to make a revolution), but the nuances of this type of argument are not 
reflected in the student’s assertion.
In order to strengthen his or her assertions, this student could articulate how the leader, people, and unity 
make a revolution successful, which would clarify the assertions in scope.
For the second assertion, the author could explain WHEN a faithful group of followers could take a 
revolution very far: “Once a determined leader is established within the community, a faithful group of 
followers provides the social, economic, and political clout to take the revolution very far.” This revision 
clarifies the assertion in scope.

- 2 -

essay: History - Ingredients Revolution
Essay #1

Prompt: Lenin states that “any cook should be able to run the country.” If revolution is the stew and 
contributing factors are the ingredients, what is the recipe for revolution; namely, what are the three most 
significant contributing factors?

 
“Any cook should be able to run the country.” Lenin states that a cook could run the country in 
reference with the fact that there are only specific ingredients that could make a true revolution. In theory, 
it takes a determined leader, a faithful group of followers and one uniting cause to prepare the perfect 
revolution.
 
First off, a determined leader is needed to run a functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired the 
people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t for him and his devotion to the cause, the people would not 
have succeeded in creating the nation they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is possible to obtain 
this knowledge is the sphere of relationships of all classes and strata to the state and the government, 
the sphere of interrelations between all classes made possible by professional revolutionaries.”(V.I. 
Lenin) Lenin expresses the idea that in order to create and run a revolution, you need a professional and 
experienced leader to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the attempt would be futile.
Secondly, a faithful group of followers can take the revolution very far. A leader without followers 
 
would go nowhere. In order to be faithful to your revolution, you have to be prepared to do whatever 
it  takes to get to your common goal. “The force of peasentry is like that of the raging winds and driving 
rain… No force can stand in its way. The peasentry will tear apart all nets which bind it and hasten along 
the road to liberation.”(Mao Zedong) Mao Zedong understood as a leader of the Chinese Revoution that 
if they were to prosper, the people supporting him would have to be determined, devoted, and be willing 
to follow without doubts. Without people with true faith in the cause, there will be opposition and the 
revolution will not thrive.
 
Lastly, to do well in a revolution, you have to be united and fight for one cause. When people come 
together as one, they can easily achieve what their goal was set to be. “In order to free ourselves of 
dynastic rule, we need to unite as one people.”(Sun Yixian) Sun Yixian, the former president of China, 
states that unity is the key to a great and powerful undefeated force known as revolution. Once everyone is 
on the same page, then it is easier to get something accomplished.  Like Abraham Lincoln said “Together 
we stand. Divided we fall.”
 
revolution. With a leader to illuminate the right path, followers  to sacrifice whatever for the cause and one 
common goal you will see that the revolution will prosper. In any event, each of the revolutions discussed 
including the Chinese Revolution, the Communist Revolution in Russia and many others had these 
components. 

Altoghether, a trusting leader, trusting followers, and unity, are the key components to a excellent 

- 3 -



