Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/POSITION03B.PDF
Position 3 (set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Baca.Always Here

ABstrAct/summAry:
While the thesis statement has severe problems in concision, it is defensible and understandable.  
Assertions are sound, defensible, and clarified in scope. However, the thesis statement is not clarified in 
scope, and therefore does not provide an ample frame for the assertions.  This issue prevents the thesis 
statement from scoring a 4.

criterion 1: tHesis
The lengthy thesis statement must be considered the following three sentences:

In I Am Offering This Poem, by Jimmy Santiago Baca, the poet is giving the idea that love is 
providing you with all that you need, for example guidance and comfort. When in love, humans tend 
to feel safe and as if they belong, knowing there is someone that’s always there that cares for them. 
Love is not something     humans can just dispose of: it most likely will always be there.

This thesis statement has several problems. First of all, it is long-winded and unclear. (Writing is 
understandable, but not clear.) The second and third lines of the thesis (where the thesis traditionally lies) 
do not discuss the poem at all, but give a general impression of love. The writer does not clearly state that 
the poet believes these values.
Moreover, these three statements mirror the three assertions, and mostly rephrase the assertions instead of 
presenting ONE clear idea that is an umbrella for the assertions. This indicates that the thesis statement is 
not clarified in scope; the reader does not clearly see the limits of the argument.
A better thesis statement would read as follows:

In “I Am Offering This Poem” by Jimmy Baca, the speaker uses poetic devices to make his 
declarative definition of love: neither passionate or consuming, true love ultimately gives humans 
safety, comfort, and most importantly, permanence.

While hardly flawless, this re-written thesis statement more clearly articulates the position of the paper 
(that the speaker offers a specific definition of love) and offers a clearer umbrella statement which the 
assertions can (and do) prove. This rewritten thesis statement is clarified in scope; the original one is not. 
It is also important to note that this revised thesis completely addresses the prompt (level 4 in thesis) while 
arguments can be more for and against this criterion for the original thesis.
The student’s thesis is vaguely defensible because it states an argument—namely, that the poem presents 
the central idea that love is permanent and provides a sense of safety and comfort. This is not an obvious 
truth about the poem (claiming that the poem is about love would be), but an argument and conclusion 
based on analysis of the poetic devices. (It is not, however, insightful or nuanced.)

criterion 2: Assertions
The major limiting factor of these assertions is their arbitrary order thereby also receiving a three in 
assertions. Paragraphs are interchangeable and do not build on each other. If the writer thought more 

- 1 -

clearly about how her arguments built on each other, she could make a stronger point. For example, the 
paper might have been better served by an organizational structure that started with the most foundational 
device and progressed to the most nuanced. A chronological sequence of assertions would most likely 
be strongest as it would allow the author to analyze the intentional shifts in meaning, language, and craft 
throughout the poem.
With the exception of an arbitrary order (explained more thoroughly in Organization), assertions are 
defensible, and ideas and writing are understandable (but not clear, which is a level 5).
The assertions are not complex because their meaning needs to be teased out and is not particularly 
focused:
• 
The idea that love makes you feel safe and as if you belong is conveyed by the author’s use  
of imagery.
Love is knowing that there is that one person who will always be there to protect and care for you 
• 
is illustrated by the poet’s use of sound devices.
• 
The speaker’s employment of figurative language produces the idea that love is feeling sheltered, 
and not something that you can just dispose of.

These are sound and strong assertions, but they are missing a specific qualifier to connect the poetic device 
to the claim: what about the imagery? What about the sound devices? How does the poem use imagery 
to present the idea that love is safety? The reader doesn’t know the core of the argument by reading these 
assertions. While not every assertion in all papers need to give the entire reasoning behind a claim, in this 
instance the reasoning’s absence hampers the strength of the assertions, making them too simplistic.
Complex assertions would present the information immediately, clearly, and without ambiguity in a single 
sentence. Then, the paragraph would provide evidence to back up the assertion made. (See the Yeats paper 
for examples of this.)
If the first assertion was rewritten to be more complex, it might look like this:

The author’s use of warm, comforting imagery reveals love as steadfast and safe.

This was written based on ideas that are already in this paragraph; however, it makes the assertion more 
specific so that the reader knows what the paragraph will prove. (Note that this is also a very small but 
important change.) It’s not just that the author uses imagery; it’s that the author uses a specific type of 
imagery (warm and comforting) to convey a specific idea (love is steadfast and safe) that connects with the 
larger thesis (love is permanent).

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Baca.Always Here
Essay #2 
Prompt: How does the author use poetic devices to illuminate the theme of the poem?

 

 

 

 

 

Always Here

The idea that love makes you feel safe and as if you belong is conveyed by the author’s use of 

 
Love is knowing someone cares and will always be there. Moreover, it is that warm feeling you get 

 
 
when your loved one embraces you. However, it doesn’t have to be based on a relationship, it can be based 
on a mother and daughter connection. For many humans love is a deeper connection that we are all looking 
for in life. In I Am Offering This Poem, by Jimmy Santiago Baca, the poet is giving the idea that love is 
providing you with all that you need, for example guidance and comfort. When in love, humans tend to 
feel safe and as if they belong, knowing there is someone that’s always there that cares for them. Love is 
not something humans can just dispose of: it most likely will always be there.
 
imagery. Throughout the poem, the poet helps express the idea of feeling safe by letting us see, taste, and 
smell what satisfies us. Baca states in the third stanza, “it is a pot full of yellow corn/ to warm your belly 
in the winter” (9-10). The comforting smell of corn helps to create the thought of feeling calm, warm, and 
replete. Moreover, when the composer talks about the bright color he is comparing it to the dull white 
outside. This image is purposely created to help the reader feel that tender, secure sensation of protection. 
This is illustrating how love makes you feel safe and comfortable. In the fifth stanza, the author is portrays 
the idea that love makes you aware that you belong. He does this by allowing us to feel, see, hear, and 
smell what soothes us. Baca states, “and let you warm yourself by this fire/rest by this fire, and make you 
feel safe” (21-22). The warmth of the fire makes you want to be there. The image of the fire, hearing it 
cracking, and smelling the wood burning lets you know how safe you are, and how much you belong there. 
The author intentionally placed this image in the poem to help the individual reading experience that warm 
sensation. This is exhibiting how love places you out of harm’s way and makes you want to stay, as if you 
belong. All in all, this portrays the idea that the author’s use of imagery conveys that love makes you feel 
safe and as if you belong.
 
Love is knowing that there is that one person who will always be there to protect and care for you is 
illustrated by the poet’s use of sound devices. At some point in the poem, the artist provokes the idea of 
feeling protected by using alliteration. Baca states in the first stanza, “the cold cannot bite through” (6). 
The hard “c” sound is putting an end to something. It’s showing that every bad thing that is being done 
to them will not bring them down. The composer purposely created this use of the alliteration because he 
wants to express to the reader that he will protect them from everything that’s trying to bring them down. 
This is showing how love can protect you from oppression. In the seventh stanza, the author perpetuates 
the idea that love is also knowing that there is someone that always cares for you. He suggests this by using 
a rhyme scheme. Baca states, “and to go on living inside/ when the world outside/ no longer cares if you 
live or die” (26-28). The rhyme scheme was intentionally placed in this poem to show how harsh reality 
really is, but knowing there is someone you can always count on to be there for you. This is displaying 
the idea that love is being aware that somebody until the end of time will care for you. In conclusion, this 

- 3 -

conveys the idea that the author’s use of sound devices illustrates that love is knowing that there is that one 
person who will always be there to guard you and care for you.
            The speaker’s employment of figurative language produces the idea that love is feeling sheltered, 
and not something that you can just dispose of. In the third stanza, the poet conveys his idea that loves 
warmth makes you feel protected by the use of a metaphor. Baca states, “it is a scarf for your head, to 
wear/over your hair, to tie up around your face” (11-12). The author is comparing the scarf’s intensity to 
his love, and power to make you feel protected. His love is warmhearted, which means he can make you 
feel sheltered. In the fifth stanza, the author is expressing the idea that love is not something you can throw 
away by the use of a simile. Baca states, “tucked away like a cabin or a hogan.” (6) The artist is contrasting 
a hidden cabin in the forest to how his love is not something that will just go away. The author intended 
this simile to show how much he cares, and to let the reader know he is always there. This is showing that 
love is something you can save but not something you can dispose of. All in all, this illustrates the idea 
that the author’s use of figurative language shows that love creates a feeling of being sheltered, and not 
something that you can just toss away.
            Throughout the poem, the poet continues to illustrate the idea of humans tending to feel secure 
and as if you belong, knowing there is someone that always cares. The composer demonstrates this by 
employing imagery, sound devices and figurative language. Having realized this about life, humans learned 
that without knowing that there is someone that’s always there to pick you up when you’re down. In 
conclusion, humans may realize how deep and important love really is. 

- 4 -



