Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-evidence/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/SELECTION-1-SET-3.PDF
Selection 1 (Set 3)

Analysis: History - Greco-Roman Legacy
Selection: Presentation

This paper scores a 1 for the presentation of evidence because while some of the facts included must have clearly come from
somewhere, it is unclear what is evidence or where it comes from, aside from the personal observations in the ﬁnal paragraph. There is
no quoted evidence in this paper. While it is not absolutely necessary, there are multiple instances where quoted evidence might
strengthen the paper.

Essay: History - Greco-Roman Legacy

Prompt: Argue your opinion on the essential question: “Which aspect of Greco-Roman
culture has more legacies in our modern society, art, or architecture?
As you organize your evidence, be sure to also:

Describe Greco-Roman cultural achievements in art.
Describe Greco-Roman cultural achievements in architecture.
Argue your opinion on the essential questions “Which aspect of Greco-Roman
culture has more legacies in our modern society, art, or architecture?” using evidence
from History class.

The aspect of Greco-Roman culture that is more of a legacy in our modern society today is architecture. The
achievements in architecture that Greco-Roman culture achieved was pediments, vaults, and domes, which
were awesome designs that they used for buildings. Another achievement in Greco-Roman culture is art. The
achievements in art that they achieved were peace and harmony, idealized and lifelike ﬁgures, and daily task
or a heroic ﬁgure throughout their art. The aspect of Greco-Roman culture that is more of a legacy in our
modern society is architecture.

During Greco-Roman culture they achieved achievements in arts. One achievement they achieved in art was
there art showed peace and harmony. Athenians valued peace and harmony in their daily life, as shown by
their patron, Athena, goddess of wisdom. Their art showed this too. Also, they made their art look lifelike
which made it look idealized. The Athenians wanted to make their ﬁgure of art look real so people could be
amazed by it, so they made it look idealized. Another achievement is their art showed a daily task or a heroic
ﬁgure. Athenians worshiped many Greek Gods, so they would make heroic ﬁgures of them, or a regular
person doing something someone in the real world do. This showed how the Greco-Roman culture achieved
achievements in art.

During Greco-Roman culture they also achieved achievements in architecture. One achievement they
achieved in architecture was they used pediments for buildings. The Athenians used pediments to hold up a
building and they used pediments to make buildings look awesome. Also, they used vaults in architecture.
The Athenians used vaults to make an arch for buildings, such as the coliseum, an ancient Roman Stadium.
Another achievement in architecture was homes. Athenians used domes to put a circular roof over a building,
such as the pantheon, an acient Roman temple. This shows how Greco-Roman culture achieved achievements
in architecture.

Architecture is more of a legacy in our modern society then art for many reasons. Architecture is more of a
legacy because today I see many pediments on buildings such as the White house, and the U.S. Senate
building. But in art I don’t see many life-like/idolized ﬁgures, such as in cartoons and video games like
regular snow and Black Cops. Also today I see many vaults such as football stadiums, and archs in museums.
In art I don’t see many peaceful pictures that show harmony like pictures of the Civil War and World War II.
Architecture we do have many domes today such as in Africa where they have circular roofs, and in many
churches. Today in art, I don’t see many heroic ﬁgures or a daily task such as paintings of melting clocks, and
a goddess. This all show how Architecture is more of a legacy in our modern society than art.

So in conclusion, architecture is more of a legacy in our modern society than art because today in the real
world we have many buildings showing architecture, which is more than the paintings that we see in art that
doesn’t represent Greco-Roman culture.



