Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SELECTION02A.PDF
selection 2 (set 1)

Analysis: History - Uganda

AbstrAct/sUmmAry:
The evidence selected scores a 2 overall because of the weakness of the evidence in the first body 
paragraph. There is a leap in logic about the 4% detail that prevents it from “strongly and accurately” 
supporting the assertion. While this paper perhaps gets docked particularly low because of the nuance of 
the complex argument, this is the nature of writing with increasingly complex ideas (for example, a middle 
school student might have a piece of evidence that is compelling and convincing-- an 8 on our rubric-- but 
for a much simpler subject).

criterion 1: cHoice
The amount of evidence in this paper is adequate in amount. However, a better paper would parse out the 
language of the bill more and use the same source (article 19, for example) for more evidence. This is a 
paper that analyzes the precise language of the law and the UNDHR; it cries out for a detailed analysis of 
specific words or phrases within the bill and law, not just a broad analysis of entire sentences. (This is both 
a choice and presentation issue.)
Most importantly, however, the evidence is in the first paragraph does not strongly support the assertion. 
There is faulty logic here:

• 
• 

• 

• 

The assertion argues that the bill “restricts the freedom of homosexuals”
However, the evidence does not prove that the bill is inherently wrong; rather, that limiting 
opinions is wrong
People who support homosexuality are not necessarily people who are homosexual. In this way, 
the author makes a number of faulty logical leaps.
Because of this fact, the evidence is merely “connected” to the assertion - it does not strongly 
support the assertion.

In a higher grade, the paper would be better served by more evidence. There is a clear opportunity to 
provide more evidence from the bill itself that the writer does not take.

criterion 2: PresentAtion
The first sentence of the paper doesn’t blend well into the UNDHR quotation.  The author should have 
taken out “whereas.” Stronger presentation would have looked like this:

• 

r), the “recognition of the 
As stated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights (UNDH
inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the 
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.”
However, most, if not nearly all, evidence is clearly presented.

- 1 -

essay: History - Uganda
 
 
Composition- Mr. Melvin                                                                  CHPRIDE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February 8, 2011

 

 

 

 

     Anchor Paper PBA # 6

To begin, the Anti- homosexual bill proposed in Uganda violates the Universal Declaration of Human 

 
As stated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights (UNDHR), “Whereas recognition of 

 
 
the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the 
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.” The purpose of the UNDHR is to outline the 
rights that all humans are entitled to. The proposed Anti-Homosexual bill in Uganda, which is a bill to 
eradicate homosexuals, is a violation of the UNDHR because it infringes on the freedom of expression 
of homosexuals. However, the proposed bill abides by the will of the majority of citizens in Uganda. 
Although that may be the case, the proposed bill is ultimately a violation of the UNDHR.
 
Rights because it restricts the freedom of homosexuals. In Uganda, 4% of the population approve of 
homosexuality. If the bill is passed, that 4% will be prosecuted and imprisoned along with homosexuals. 
Article 19 of the UDHR states, “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right 
includes freedom to hold opinions without interference…” This right is repressed by the bill, thus labeling 
it a violation of the UDHR. Without the Anti- homosexual bill, opponents to homosexuality have the right 
to voice their outcries against the practice while proponents for it have the right to voice their support. 
The use of the phrase, “freedom of opinion” proposes the idea that no one can be forced to have a certain 
opinion. The government or members of the majority in a society cannot compel an individual to think 
the same as them. Also, the use of the phrase “freedom of expression” reveals that people have the right to 
express themselves in a homosexual manner without fearing persecution. To conclude, the purpose of the 
bill is to eradicate the homosexual expression.
  Many proponents of the Anti-homosexuality bill claim that it does not violate the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights because the law meets the rule of the majority. In Uganda, 96% of the 
population disprove of the practice of homosexuality, therefore the government must abide by the 
democratic vote of the majority.  In article 21 of the UNDHR it states, “The will of the people shall be 
the basis of the authority of the government; this will shall be expressed in patriotic and genuine elections 
which shall be universal…” The Declaration specifies that the majority vote shall elect a government by 
the “will of the people”. The use of this phrase suggests that the will of the people is related to the majority 
vote which would be 96% of Uganda in support for the bill. The use of the phrase “genuine elections” 
reveals that if the people of Uganda vote on the Bill, it should be passed into a law. To disregard the 
vote of the majority in order to appease the acts of the minority is undemocratic. To conclude, the Anti-
Homosexuality Bill is not a violation of the UNDHR since it was proposed by the will of the people.
 
Ultimately, the proposed Anti-Homosexuality bill is a violation of the UNDHR. Although it offers 
an election by a democratic process, the subject of the Anti-Homosexual bill, which is the persecution of 
homosexuals, cannot be voted on. In article 2 of the UNDHR it states, “Everyone is entitles to all the rights 
and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind…Furthermore, no distinction 
shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country…” This 
statement reveals that the Anti-Homosexuality bill in Uganda is in fact a violation of the UNDHR because 

- 2 -

it revokes the rights of homosexuals living in Uganda. The use of the phrase “Everyone is entitled to all 
the rights and freedoms…” reveals that even if 96% of Uganda is against homosexuality, the 4% are still 
protected by this declaration. If the bill passes and the 4% are persecuted, that will render the bill/law 
as a violation of the UNDHR. Also, the use of the phrase “…no distinction shall be made on the basis 
of the political, jurisdictional, or international status of the economy…” reveals that even if Uganda is 
seeking national sovereignty, their proposed bill is still a violation of the UNDHR. To conclude, the Anti-
Homosexual bill proposed in Uganda is ultimately a violation of the UNDHR.
To conclude, the proposed Anti-Homosexual bill in Uganda, is a violation of the UNDHR because 
 
it infringes on the freedom of expression of homosexuals. However, the proposed bill abides by the will 
of the majority of citizens in Uganda. Although that may be the case, the proposed bill is ultimately a 
violation of the UNDHR.

- 3 -



