Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SELECTION00A.PDF
selectIon 0 ( set 1)

Analysis: History - Ingredients Revolution

AbstRAct/summARy:
This paper scores a zero because none of the evidence (to varying degrees) is connected to the assertions. 
In addition, evidence is not adequate in amount because there is only one evidence chunk per paragraph.

cRIteRIon 1: cHoIce
The issue of “adequate” evidence notwithstanding, there is also an issue of how much the evidence is 
actually connected to the assertion. Certain pieces of evidence—in particular, the quotation in the third 
paragraph—are connected to the (rough) assertions, but not all.
The first quotation, which talks about the knowledge of the relationship between classes, is misunderstood 
and not fully related to the assertion (about a strong leader being needed for a revolution). The second 
quotation is also disconnected from the assertion. The quotation is about the power of a large mass of 
people, while the assertion is about faithfulness among people. While they do have in common the idea of 
a mass or mob, they are not ultimately connected ideas.
The evidence in the third body paragraph is connected to the (rough) assertion. Both the assertion and 
the quotation are about unity of cause, although it is problematic that they simply state the same idea 
without adding support for a larger idea. Furthermore, while the evidence supports the part of the assertion 
that people must unite, it does not address the idea of “fight[ing] for one cause.” The evidence is still 
connected, but it does not fully address the assertion.
Moreover, because there aren’t clear defensible assertions, there isn’t an opportunity for the writer to make 
the evidence truly supportive. Even if these quotations were directly relevant, the lack of defensibility in 
the thesis statements prevents them from being truly supportive. In addition, truly supportive evidence 
would not just restate the assertion (“we need unity”), but support it with an idea that deepens the 
conviction of the assertion.

cRIteRIon 2: PResentAtIon
If the amount of evidence in this paper was adequate and all evidence was connected to the assertions, 
this paper could not advance to a 2 because the evidence is not roughly presented. The quotations are not 
connected to the other sentences by punctuation, but float in the middle of paragraphs with no grammatical 
(or other) introduction. With the sentences in this paper, this could be accomplished with a simple colon in 
front of the quotation. This is a simple but important mechanical addition that could help the writer clarify 
how ideas are connected (and perhaps understand how certain quotations aren’t connected).

- 1 -

essay: History - Ingredients Revolution
Essay #1

Prompt: Lenin states that “any cook should be able to run the country.” If revolution is the stew and 
contributing factors are the ingredients, what is the recipe for revolution; namely, what are the three most 
significant contributing factors?

 
“Any cook should be able to run the country.” Lenin states that a cook could run the country in 
reference with the fact that there are only specific ingredients that could make a true revolution. In theory, 
it takes a determined leader, a faithful group of followers and one uniting cause to prepare the perfect 
revolution.
 
First off, a determined leader is needed to run a functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired the 
people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t for him and his devotion to the cause, the people would not 
have succeeded in creating the nation they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is possible to obtain 
this knowledge is the sphere of relationships of all classes and strata to the state and the government, 
the sphere of interrelations between all classes made possible by professional revolutionaries.”(V.I. 
Lenin) Lenin expresses the idea that in order to create and run a revolution, you need a professional and 
experienced leader to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the attempt would be futile.
Secondly, a faithful group of followers can take the revolution very far. A leader without followers 
 
would go nowhere. In order to be faithful to your revolution, you have to be prepared to do whatever 
it  takes to get to your common goal. “The force of peasentry is like that of the raging winds and driving 
rain… No force can stand in its way. The peasentry will tear apart all nets which bind it and hasten along 
the road to liberation.”(Mao Zedong) Mao Zedong understood as a leader of the Chinese Revoution that 
if they were to prosper, the people supporting him would have to be determined, devoted, and be willing 
to follow without doubts. Without people with true faith in the cause, there will be opposition and the 
revolution will not thrive.
 
Lastly, to do well in a revolution, you have to be united and fight for one cause. When people come 
together as one, they can easily achieve what their goal was set to be. “In order to free ourselves of 
dynastic rule, we need to unite as one people.”(Sun Yixian) Sun Yixian, the former president of China, 
states that unity is the key to a great and powerful undefeated force known as revolution. Once everyone is 
on the same page, then it is easier to get something accomplished.  Like Abraham Lincoln said “Together 
we stand. Divided we fall.”
 
revolution. With a leader to illuminate the right path, followers  to sacrifice whatever for the cause and one 
common goal you will see that the revolution will prosper. In any event, each of the revolutions discussed 
including the Chinese Revolution, the Communist Revolution in Russia and many others had these 
components. 

Altoghether, a trusting leader, trusting followers, and unity, are the key components to a excellent 

- 2 -



