Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SELECTION02B.PDF
SeLeCTion 2 (Set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

SummAry/ABSTrACT:
Despite some problems in presentation, overall the evidence is roughly presented and the evidence selected 
supports the assertion. However, some problems with presentation and a few pieces of evidence that do not 
strongly support the assertion prevent this paper from scoring a 3. This writer is just on the cusp of a 3 or 
higher and could easily be moved high up on the rubric with a few changes.

CriTerion 1: CHoiCe
Most of the evidence is directly relevant to the assertion. In the third body paragraph, the two chunks of 
evidence cite that Creon is a) prideful and b) made a mistake in not burying his son. These lead directly 
to the assertion at the bottom of the paragraph, that “his own mistakes cause his own downfall along 
with those around him, [...] [his] great fall, pride, sorrow and mainly his control over his fate are the 
characteristics that fit with Aristotle’s view of the tragic hero.” As such, this is a strong choice, but not 
particularly persuasive (a higher standard on the rubric). A more persuasive evidence selection would be 
less obvious (it’s clear that Creon is prideful), or more subtle than the burial of his son.
However, the evidence selection in the second body paragraph is less strong. The two chunks of evidence 
are about Creon’s feelings about the skipped burial and his determination to die and not observe his 
sister’s death; these do not clearly relate to the assertion that this suffering was not under his own control, 
which would exclude him from the category of a tragic hero. While these pieces of evidence are certainly 
relevant, they are not direct support for the assertion, pushing the paper down to a 2.

CriTerion 2: PreSenTATion
In some cases, the evidence should be presented with a colon and not a comma, and therefore is not 
presented clearly. (One example of two: “Creon finally realizes his mistake when the blind prophet, 
Teiresias, shows it to him, ‘Pay to the dead his due [...]’ (153).”) This qualifies the overall presentation of 
evidence as “roughly presented,” although just barely. 

- 1 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -



