Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SELECTION07.PDF
SELECTION 7

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
This paper is also an exemplar of evidence selection. In particular, this paper does an excellent job of citing 
small pieces of evidence, and different types of evidence (line references, grammatical patterns, poetic 
devices, etc.), stretching only 26 lines of poetry into a deep well of evidence for a 10-page paper.

CRITERION 1: CHOICE
Evidence is cited in multiple frames (as mentioned above) and includes several different sources of literary 
analysis.  Throughout the paper, the evidence selected drives the argument forward and remains the 
backbone of the entire paper through the sheer volume and constant weaving of evidence throughout.

CRITERION 2: PRESENTATION
The presentation of the evidence is also clear and succinct, and uses different forms when appropriate.
For a particularly illustrative example of presentation, read page 3 of the paper. This paragraph begins with 
a block quotation and then refers back to the evidence throughout, through analysis parenthetical short 
phrases,

...the king feels justified in openly mocking the immortals (“ye mighty”) and ordering them to 
acknowledge his superiority (“‘despair!’”).

traditional incorporation of evidence,

At the end of the sonnet, however, the tone of the first four lines returns with a vengeance: “Round 
the decay/Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare,/The lone and level sands stretch far away.”

blended direct evidence,

Here the imagery contrasts sharply with the previous visions of defeat: the “wrinkled lip, and sneer 
of cold command” not only project vibrant life onto the statue, but also give the statue an aura of 
power and confidence.
summarization of evidence,

Finally, the powerful imperative that concludes this middle portion of the sonnet fully captures 
the power of the king’s achievements: they must be great indeed if the king feels that they alone are 
grounds for his own elevation to a position of power above the gods [...]

and the use of key words in interpretation.

No longer glorified, the statue loses all the powerful vitality and becomes a “decay” once again.

Another example of both excellent selection and presentation is the blocked quotation from “The Second 
Coming” with pieces of the poems marked in bold and italics. This use of bolding and italics seeks to 
underline the author’s rather insightful point, which is that the elements of chaos lie on the left side of the 
poem, and the elements of order lie on the right.

- 1 -

In general, the sheer volume of evidence (the number of quotations citied), the multiple sources of 
evidence (content of the poem, structure in the poem, literary criticism of the poem), and level of depth 
(looking at one line of a poem from the angle of content, background, rhythm, and poetical conventions) 
make the evidence selection in this paper a 7.

Essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -



