Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-language/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/SENTENCE-FLUENCY-6-SET-2.PDF
Sentence Fluency 6 (Set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Animal Farm Allegory
Sentence Fluency: Concision

This paper scores a 6 for concision. There are no extraneous expressions. While there one instance of repetition of ideas in the context
for the Squealer quote, this is an exception. This does, however, keep it from scoring a 7.

Essay: Lit - Animal Farm Allegory

Prompt: How does Orwell’s allegory support his argument regarding the misuse of power
in government?

An allegory is an extended symbol of ﬁctional characters, events, and ideas that represent actual people,
events and ideas. Throughout his life, Orwell has seen the horrors of an unjust system of government. Orwell
uses an allegory to support his argument on corrupt government. In the allegory Animal Farm, Orwell argues
that governments can be corrupt; mostly seen through the symbolism of the dogs, the hens, and Boxer.

Orwell uses the dogs to symbolize how governments use military force to intimidate society. Stalin used
brutal military force to strike fear into his people. Stalin made the military kill people publicly. If he
suspected subversive activity, “Anybody suspected of disloyalty was murdered...or put on public show trials
at which they pleaded guilty to crimes they could never have done”(Stalin: Purges and Praises). Many
citizens targeted by Stalin confessed to impossible crimes. Similarly, Napoleon uses the dogs for intimidation.
He would have the dogs kill any untrustworthy animals. The dogs represent the KGB. Squealer uses the dogs
to intimidate the animals into believing him. The animals congregate to discuss the construction of the
windmill. Squealer was trying to teach the animals about tactics and, “The animals were not sure what the
word meant, but Squealer spoke so persuasively and the three dogs who happened to be with him growled so
threateningly that they accepted his explanation without further questions” (58). Squealer explains to the

animals how to use tactics. The animals, unsure of what the word meant, are not going to believe him;
however, the menacing, growling dogs persuade them to. Similarly, Stalin used fear to get the people of
Russia under his control and inﬂuence. The KGB would be at his right hand and ready to hurt anyone if
necessary, depicting Orwell’s argument of an abusive, dictatorial government.

Orwell uses the hens to symbolize how governments can mistreat their own people to maintain power and
control. Kulaks were public enemies; Stalin made it clear that Kulaks should have no assistance from any
citizen. Stalin said, “...the Kulaks were to be left homeless without a single possession...it was also forbidden
for anyone to aid dispossessed Kulak families”(Stalin’s Forced Famine). The Kulaks were dispossessed and
left for death. Anyone that helped them was treated the same way. Similarly, Napoleon abuses the
“disobedient” hens. No animal could assist the hens, or they would die. The hens represent the Kulaks. Under
Napoleon’s orders, all rations that the hens usually receive are to be ceased. One Sunday morning in the
farmhouse, Napoleon, “Ordered the hens’ rations to be stopped, and decreed that any animal giving so much
as a grain of corn to a hen should be punished by death”(76). Napoleon abandons the hens. Any animal
offering assistance is given the death sentence. Similarly, Stalin abandoned the Kulaks. All of their
possessions were taken away and were shunned by the people. Governments were able to turn the people
against certain groups of people, depicting Orwell’s argument of a corrupt government.

Orwell uses Boxer to represent how governments can take advantage of even their most loyal people. Many
innocent, hardworking Russians were killed during Stalin’s rule. His goal was to remain leader of the
Bolshevik Communist. To achieve this goal, “Millions of Russian people were slaughtered during his regime,
and those that survived lived in virtual slavery under the dark shadow of the state”(Stalin Assumes Power).
Stalin killed even the most trustworthy citizens, included in the millions of slaughtered Russians, as an
attempt to keep the people under control. Similarly, Napoleon has Boxer murdered. Boxer is one of the most
hardworking, loyal animals, yet he is killed. Boxer is a symbol of the loyal, hardworking Russian. Boxer was
starting to become old and have no use on the Animal Farm. In the middle of one day, Napoleon sends for the
knacker to come get Boxer. The animals are, at ﬁrst, excited for him not understanding what was happening.
Then Benjamin questions, “Do you not understand what this means? They are taking Boxer to the
knackers!”(122). Boxer is shipped off to the horse slaughterer after being deemed no use to the Animal Farm.
Napoleon wants to show the animals an example of what could happen to them if they became old or lazy; no
matter how hard they had previously worked. Similarly, Stalin had many loyal Russians murdered. His
paranoia of losing control led him to act irrationally, depicting Orwell’s argument of a corrupt government.

Orwell’s allegory argues that governments can be corrupt; most seen through the symbolism of the dogs, the

hens, and Boxer. Being that they were a source of intimidation, the dogs are a symbol of the KGB. They are
used whenever a citizen needed redirection. An enemy to the public and shunned by all, the hens represent
the Kulaks. No one helped the dispossessed people out of fear. He worked hard and was the most loyal of
them all, thus Boxer symbolizes the hardworking, loyal yet exploited Russian. No matter how faithful they
are, their ultimate consequence is death. Governments may appear as fair and just, but looks can be
deceiving. Novels such as Animal Farm can make one question the government and its true motives.



