Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-language/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/SENTENCE-FLUENCY-6-SET-3.PDF
Sentence Fluency 6 (Set 3)

Analysis: History - FDR
Sentence Fluency: Concision

This paper scores a 6 for concision because there is only one use of an extraneous expression, the inclusion of the word “proves” and
no repetition of ideas. That being said, had some of the ideas been more fully developed and the logical link between the ideas more
clearly stated, this paper would have scored higher in other areas.

Essay: History - FDR

Prompt: How effective was Franklin D. Roosevelt’s response to the problems of the Great
Depression?

Throughout history, great leaders have taken action to improve the well-being of citizens all over the United
States; Franklin Roosevelt was one of them. During the Great Depression many people didn’t have food
clothes or even housing and blamed it on Hoover. The suicide rate went up by 4%, and many banks closed
down. People couldn’t sell their businesses anymore and were forced to create little houses made out of scrap
parts called Hoovervilles and turned their pants pockets inside-out to make Hoover ﬂags. Once FDR was
elected he created “New Deals” that supposedly was supposed to help improve the depression but is argued
that it did help the depression. Although Roosevelt denied some Americans their rights, he was effective
because he gave jobs and helped business.

FDR’s plan was mostly affective because he granted many jobs through the AAA and the WPA and increased
income in the government. The AAA, agricultural adjustment act, and WPA, workers progress
administration, both helped with jobs for people who suffered during the Great Depression. In document D,
before FDR came into power the unemployment rate was up to 12,830,000 people, and after he came in and
proposed new deals 670,000 people were unemployed meaning when FDR was in power he decreased the
rate by 12,160,000 people. This drastic decrease helped the citizen of the United States ﬁnd a way to get their

lives back together. This also applies in document F because from 1929-1932 the economy has been losing
money constantly, but in 1933 after Roosevelt is elected the economy starts to increase by an average of 5%
every year. This increase in the economy proves that FDR is not only helping the people of the US but trying
to improve the culture overall.

FDR’s plan was somewhat ineffective because he denied multiple classiﬁcations of people their constitutional
rights. With some of the new deals created, came some newfound problems like race and gender
discrimination. In document C, it says that the TVA “forbade Negros to live in Norris” which is where they
were working on a dam. This over-extended way of discrimination because it’s been decided that African
Americans and other races should be equal. This also applies in document H because it’s said that women are
suffering in extreme poverty such as men and many wonder “What happens to them?” This gender
discrimination is uncalled for since this is after 1919, which is when the 19th amendment was passed saying
women are able to vote, giving them equality to men.

Although Roosevelt denied some Americans their rights, he was effective because he gave jobs and helped
business. If Roosevelt had opened his horizons more so that women and African Americans the depression
wouldn’t have been that much as a problem, and if he used less money for his New Deals then the economy
wouldn’t be lower than what is was at the beginning of 1929.



