Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SENTENCEFLUENCY03A.PDF
senTence FLuency 3 (set 1)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

AbsTrAcT/summAry:
While the paper employs many simple, complex, and compound sentences, many of which are clear, the 
paper is not primarily free of repeated ideas and extraneous expressions, which prevents it from scoring a 
4. There are several examples of passive voice, but the paper is generally free of passive voice (exceptions 
noted below).

criTerion 1: FLuency
With the problems of extraneous expressions and repetition fixed, this paper could score fairly high in 
fluency. There are simple, compound, and complex sentences, and most are clear and meaningful. The 
writer has a clear but not overdeveloped sense of the use of the semi-colon to connect independent clauses.
There are several examples of passive voice:

• 

• 

• 

“Ismene, the sister of Antigone, suffers greatly because of the curse her father has placed upon the 
family by accidentally marrying his mother.”
• 

The first part of this sentence is active “Ismene… suffers” but the second dependent clause 
“because of the curse the family has placed…” is passive (and not parallel, and therefore 
awkward as well). In this sentence, the father’s curse causes the most damage; it is the 
subject of the action, but not of the sentence (which makes it passive voice). Clarifying the 
subject of the action might also lead this writer to a better clarity of thought; if she wrote 
the sentence with better clarity of who or what drove the action, she might arrive at a clearer 
position (that Creon’s actions drove the fate of each character). 

“But Haemon’s death was not caused by his own actions but those of his father, which excludes 
him from being the tragic hero.”
• 

This sentence deserves a similar analysis to the above; rewriting the sentence would make the 
true cause of action clearer.

Creon, the king of Thebes, falls from his place and suffers his family’s death because of his own 
mistakes.
• 

While this sentence is not strictly passive voice, the cause of action in this sentence should 
be the “mistakes,” not Creon himself. If the writer revised the sentence to active voice, she 
might realize that “mistakes” is an unspecific and vague noun and remedy the sentence 
further. Consider:
• 

“Creon’s mistakes lead to his family’s deaths and cause his fall from his place. “ (Here, 
‘mistakes’ and ‘place’ need further clarification, which is clearer in this active re-write.) 
Even better:
“Creon’s 
public opinion against him, causing his fall from the throne.”

decree not to bury his son eventually leads to his family’s deaths and turns 

• 

 

- 1 -

criTerion 2: concision
As stated earlier, the phrases “control his own fate” and “make his own mistakes” are used repeatedly with 
little to no variance.
Some examples of extraneous phrases (in italics):

• 
• 
• 
• 

“
Each of the three characters, Ismene, Haemon and Creon [...]”
“
At this point he is trying [...]”
“Haemon’s tragic end 
“Creon, the king of Thebes, falls from his place and suffers his family’s death because of his own 
mistakes. One of these mistakes is his failure [...]”

seems to fit perfectly [...]”

- 2 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -



