Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SENTENCEFLUENCY02A.PDF
sentence Fluency 2 (set 1)

Analysis: History - Ingredients Revolution

AbstRAct/summARy:
This paper receives a 2 in sentence fluency. It cannot score a 3 because of a repetition of ideas. The paper 
meets all of the other criteria for a 3.

cRIteRIon 1: Fluency
There are no fragments or obvious run-ons, and the writer employs simple, compound, and complex 
sentences (which are the requirements for a level 2). (For example: “Mao Zedong understood as a leader 
of the Chinese Revolution that if they were to prosper, the people supporting him would have to be 
determined, devoted, and be willing to follow without doubts.”) The paper also uses active voice.
However, many sentences are not precise (a level 4): “Lenin expresses the idea that in order to create and 
run a revolution, you need a professional and experienced leader to lead the group. Unfortunately, without 
one, the attempt would be futile.” In these sentences, the reader does not know why the attempt would 
be “futile” without a leader, or why a leader is really needed. Many of the sentences in this paper are 
imprecise.

cRIteRIon 2: concIsIon
Writing is largely and even primarily free of extraneous expressions (a criterion for level 3) (some 
exceptions: “In any event,” “Lenin expresses the idea that”), but the paper suffers grossly from repetition 
of ideas, which ultimately prevents it from scoring higher than a 2.
In fact, this is the main issue of the paper, which affects the content-specific levels of this rubric (ideas, 
interpretation, etc.); this paper doesn’t say much besides the assertions; many of the supporting sentences 
are rephrased assertions and do not provide any new ideas. In this specific paper, the lack of clear ideas 
leads to poor sentence fluency, as opposed to the writer’s natural skills or vocabulary.

- 1 -

essay: History - Ingredients Revolution
Essay #1

Prompt: Lenin states that “any cook should be able to run the country.” If revolution is the stew and 
contributing factors are the ingredients, what is the recipe for revolution; namely, what are the three most 
significant contributing factors?

 
“Any cook should be able to run the country.” Lenin states that a cook could run the country in 
reference with the fact that there are only specific ingredients that could make a true revolution. In theory, 
it takes a determined leader, a faithful group of followers and one uniting cause to prepare the perfect 
revolution.
 
First off, a determined leader is needed to run a functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired the 
people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t for him and his devotion to the cause, the people would not 
have succeeded in creating the nation they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is possible to obtain 
this knowledge is the sphere of relationships of all classes and strata to the state and the government, 
the sphere of interrelations between all classes made possible by professional revolutionaries.”(V.I. 
Lenin) Lenin expresses the idea that in order to create and run a revolution, you need a professional and 
experienced leader to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the attempt would be futile.
Secondly, a faithful group of followers can take the revolution very far. A leader without followers 
 
would go nowhere. In order to be faithful to your revolution, you have to be prepared to do whatever 
it  takes to get to your common goal. “The force of peasentry is like that of the raging winds and driving 
rain… No force can stand in its way. The peasentry will tear apart all nets which bind it and hasten along 
the road to liberation.”(Mao Zedong) Mao Zedong understood as a leader of the Chinese Revoution that 
if they were to prosper, the people supporting him would have to be determined, devoted, and be willing 
to follow without doubts. Without people with true faith in the cause, there will be opposition and the 
revolution will not thrive.
 
Lastly, to do well in a revolution, you have to be united and fight for one cause. When people come 
together as one, they can easily achieve what their goal was set to be. “In order to free ourselves of 
dynastic rule, we need to unite as one people.”(Sun Yixian) Sun Yixian, the former president of China, 
states that unity is the key to a great and powerful undefeated force known as revolution. Once everyone is 
on the same page, then it is easier to get something accomplished.  Like Abraham Lincoln said “Together 
we stand. Divided we fall.”
 
revolution. With a leader to illuminate the right path, followers  to sacrifice whatever for the cause and one 
common goal you will see that the revolution will prosper. In any event, each of the revolutions discussed 
including the Chinese Revolution, the Communist Revolution in Russia and many others had these 
components. 

Altoghether, a trusting leader, trusting followers, and unity, are the key components to a excellent 

- 2 -



