Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/SENTENCEFLUENCY02B.PDF
SENtENcE FLuENcy 2 (Set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Baca.Always Here

SummAry/ABStrAct:
While most simple sentences are clear and meaningful, and the writer avoids obvious fragments and run-
ons and employs complex and compound sentences, this paper scores a two because of passive voice.

crItErION 1: FLuENcy
Several sentence fragments and run-ons pepper this paper, but they are not particularly obvious and do not 
grossly affect the fluency of the paper. (One example: “…the poet is giving the idea that love is providing 
you with all that you need, for example guidance and comfort.”)
However, there are many examples of simple, clear sentences: “The comforting smell of corn helps to 
create the thought of feeling calm, warm, and replete.”
The limiting factor in this strand in the author’s use of passive voice - for this reason, it receives a two in 
sentence fluency because it is not generally in active voice (level 3). For example:

• 

The idea that love makes you feel safe and as if you belong is conveyed by the author’s use of 
imagery.

Revision-> The author’s use of imagery conveys the idea that love makes you feel safe and as 
if you belong.
Other examples of passive voice:

• 

• 

In conclusion, this conveys the idea that the author’s use of sound devices illustrates that love is 
knowing that there is that one person who will always be there to guard you and care for you.
He suggests this by using a rhyme scheme.

(Note that in rare cases, there may be instances where passive voice is appropriate and even preferred: 
http://www.unc.edu/depts/wcweb/handouts/passivevoice.html .)

crItErION 2: cONcISION
This paper meets the criteria for a 2 in concision because writing is largely free of extraneous expressions.
Per the rubric language definitions, extraneous expressions, for the sake of the HS Writing Rubric, are a 
finite set of repeat offenders. While many other phrases may be considered extraneous outside of the HS 
Writing Rubric, these are the phrases that we want to eliminate from student writing first and so these are 
the phrases we consider extraneous: this shows, maybe, basically, really, the quote is, the next example is, 
this proves, in which
Extraneous expressions are present in the paper but should not be confused with other examples of poor 
language use:

• 

Example: “Baca states in the first stanza, “the cold cannot bite through” (6). The hard “c” sound is 

- 1 -

• 

• 

• 

• 

putting an end to something. this shows that every bad thing that is being done to them will not 
bring them down.”
Explanation: “This shows” is one of the worst repeat offenders within the extraneous expressions 
category as defined. A noun phrase must always follow this, otherwise it is a vague pronoun (what 
is the student referring to with the word this?). Additionally, “shows” is a weak, overused word.
How to improve: Instead of “This shows”, the author could have written, “This alliteration 
emphasizes”.
Non-example: “In 
that love is providing you with all that you need, for example guidance and comfort.”
Explanation: While the phrase, “is giving the idea that” is certainly extra and not necessary, we 
will not consider it an “extraneous expression” within the rubric. This error has more to do with 
active verbs and syntax that an elimination of extraneous expressions.

I Am Offering This Poem, by Jimmy Santiago Baca, the poet is giving the idea 

This paper is generally free of unnecessary repetition of ideas; however, it fails to score a 3 because of 
passive voice.

- 2 -

Essay: Lit - Baca.Always Here
Essay #2 
Prompt: How does the author use poetic devices to illuminate the theme of the poem?

 

 

 

 

 

Always Here

The idea that love makes you feel safe and as if you belong is conveyed by the author’s use of 

 
Love is knowing someone cares and will always be there. Moreover, it is that warm feeling you get 

 
 
when your loved one embraces you. However, it doesn’t have to be based on a relationship, it can be based 
on a mother and daughter connection. For many humans love is a deeper connection that we are all looking 
for in life. In I Am Offering This Poem, by Jimmy Santiago Baca, the poet is giving the idea that love is 
providing you with all that you need, for example guidance and comfort. When in love, humans tend to 
feel safe and as if they belong, knowing there is someone that’s always there that cares for them. Love is 
not something humans can just dispose of: it most likely will always be there.
 
imagery. Throughout the poem, the poet helps express the idea of feeling safe by letting us see, taste, and 
smell what satisfies us. Baca states in the third stanza, “it is a pot full of yellow corn/ to warm your belly 
in the winter” (9-10). The comforting smell of corn helps to create the thought of feeling calm, warm, and 
replete. Moreover, when the composer talks about the bright color he is comparing it to the dull white 
outside. This image is purposely created to help the reader feel that tender, secure sensation of protection. 
This is illustrating how love makes you feel safe and comfortable. In the fifth stanza, the author is portrays 
the idea that love makes you aware that you belong. He does this by allowing us to feel, see, hear, and 
smell what soothes us. Baca states, “and let you warm yourself by this fire/rest by this fire, and make you 
feel safe” (21-22). The warmth of the fire makes you want to be there. The image of the fire, hearing it 
cracking, and smelling the wood burning lets you know how safe you are, and how much you belong there. 
The author intentionally placed this image in the poem to help the individual reading experience that warm 
sensation. This is exhibiting how love places you out of harm’s way and makes you want to stay, as if you 
belong. All in all, this portrays the idea that the author’s use of imagery conveys that love makes you feel 
safe and as if you belong.
 
Love is knowing that there is that one person who will always be there to protect and care for you is 
illustrated by the poet’s use of sound devices. At some point in the poem, the artist provokes the idea of 
feeling protected by using alliteration. Baca states in the first stanza, “the cold cannot bite through” (6). 
The hard “c” sound is putting an end to something. It’s showing that every bad thing that is being done 
to them will not bring them down. The composer purposely created this use of the alliteration because he 
wants to express to the reader that he will protect them from everything that’s trying to bring them down. 
This is showing how love can protect you from oppression. In the seventh stanza, the author perpetuates 
the idea that love is also knowing that there is someone that always cares for you. He suggests this by using 
a rhyme scheme. Baca states, “and to go on living inside/ when the world outside/ no longer cares if you 
live or die” (26-28). The rhyme scheme was intentionally placed in this poem to show how harsh reality 
really is, but knowing there is someone you can always count on to be there for you. This is displaying 

- 3 -

the idea that love is being aware that somebody until the end of time will care for you. In conclusion, this 
conveys the idea that the author’s use of sound devices illustrates that love is knowing that there is that one 
person who will always be there to guard you and care for you.
            The speaker’s employment of figurative language produces the idea that love is feeling sheltered, 
and not something that you can just dispose of. In the third stanza, the poet conveys his idea that loves 
warmth makes you feel protected by the use of a metaphor. Baca states, “it is a scarf for your head, to 
wear/over your hair, to tie up around your face” (11-12). The author is comparing the scarf’s intensity to 
his love, and power to make you feel protected. His love is warmhearted, which means he can make you 
feel sheltered. In the fifth stanza, the author is expressing the idea that love is not something you can throw 
away by the use of a simile. Baca states, “tucked away like a cabin or a hogan.” (6) The artist is contrasting 
a hidden cabin in the forest to how his love is not something that will just go away. The author intended 
this simile to show how much he cares, and to let the reader know he is always there. This is showing that 
love is something you can save but not something you can dispose of. All in all, this illustrates the idea 
that the author’s use of figurative language shows that love creates a feeling of being sheltered, and not 
something that you can just toss away.
            Throughout the poem, the poet continues to illustrate the idea of humans tending to feel secure 
and as if you belong, knowing there is someone that always cares. The composer demonstrates this by 
employing imagery, sound devices and figurative language. Having realized this about life, humans learned 
that without knowing that there is someone that’s always there to pick you up when you’re down. In 
conclusion, humans may realize how deep and important love really is. 

- 4 -



