Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/middle-school-argument/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/09/TERM-%E2%80%9CLOGICAL-INTERNAL-STRUCTURE%E2%80%9D.PDF
Term: “Logical internal structure”

Deﬁnition:
Logical internal structure refers to the logical organization of the paragraphs and sentences. One idea should
ﬂow into the next. The evidence should logically support the assertions, which should logically support the
thesis.
In longer pieces, transitions should wrap up the idea from the previous section and introduce the idea that is
to follow in the next section. Without logical progression of thought, the reader is unable to follow the essay’s
argument, and the structure will collapse.
There are a few core components of a body paragraph:

First of all, we assume that two evidence chunks exist in each body paragraph. This is not a hard and
fast rule, knowing that in authentic, published writing, organizational structure and argument may
allow for different types of body paragraphs, but is a common expectation to meet this threshold.
Paragraphs that follow different structures should make logical sense, ﬂow naturally, and better serve
the author’s purpose than a more formulaic paragraph.
The body paragraph includes:

Assertion: The sub-argument that frames the paragraph and clearly ties back to and supports the
thesis.
Context: The background information necessary to understand the ﬁrst piece of evidence
supporting the assertion. The author needs to set up the reader with enough background
information for the paragraph to be read smoothly and cohesively
Evidence: The speciﬁc information that supports the assertion. This could be a statistic, a
quotation from a text, a paraphrased idea from a text, etc.
Interpretation: The interpretation is where the author brings in her own analysis and reasoning
about the evidence. This is the part of the body paragraph where she explains the evidence in a
light that shows the reader how it supports the assertion and the thesis. To reach this threshold,
this must go beyond restating or explaining the evidence presented.
Context: Same as above, but for the second piece of evidence supporting the assertion.
Evidence: Same as above. This is the second piece of evidence that supports the assertion.
Interpretation: Same as above, but for the second piece of evidence supporting the assertion.
Transition / Closing: This ties the two pieces of evidence back to the assertion and, in stronger
writing, transition to the next assertion being made.



