Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/TERM_DEFENSIBLE.PDF
Term: “Defensible”
Definition: A thesis statement is defensible if a) an opposing argument / alternative view can reasonably be 
argued (even if it’s the weaker argument) and b) it is not an obvious truth about the content / text.

NOTE: For “Seminar Thinkers” History PBAs (level 0 - first three history PBAs in 9th grade), we are 
expanding our definition of defensible. In many ways, the scholar’s job is to clarify the interpretation and 
argument of the author. The scholar’s argument is defensible because the scholar must use a strong position 
and evidence to prove what they think the author is saying; however, if the scholar’s thesis is strong, it most 
likely will be a “correct” interpretation of the text. This type of position will be considered defensible for 
the “Seminar Thinkers” history PBAs (level 0 - first three history PBAs in 9th grade). (It is true that at 
a high level, one can criticize the historical narrative of seminar thinkers - this type of thinking is truly 
graduate school work and will not be touched upon in 11th grade historiography.)

Example

Non-Example

“Jean Valjean is a sympathetic character.”

“Jean Valjean suffers in his life”

Analysis: This thesis for Les Miserables is 
defensible-- even complex-- although not nuanced. 

“In the “Arab Spring” of 2011, the unprecedented 
role of online social media provided a blueprint of 
what will be a new era of governmental change-- 
a successful revolution with no leader other than 
the voice of the masses.”

Analysis: There are several aspects of this thesis 
statement that make it defensible: 1) It qualifies 
the revolution as “successful”, 2) It argues that 
this revolution will be a blueprint for future 
revolutions, rather than a fluke, 3) It makes 
the claim that there was no real leader in the 
revolution; while it’s a universal truth that there 
is no singular, highly publicized leader in the 
revolution, a different writer could find a few 
key leaders and argue that their work was more 
behind the scenes.

Analysis: This thesis statement for Les Miserables 
is NOT a defensible thesis statement (although it 
is certainly a position, in a way that “Jean Valjean 
is the main protagonist of Les Miserables” is not). 
The fact that Jean Valjean suffers is an obvious 
truth about the text that no one could reasonably 
contradict, although as a stand-alone, esoteric 
argument, it might appear defensible. 

“In the “Arab Spring” of 2011, online social media 
played a major role in communication about the 
revolution.”

Analysis: this is a FACT about the revolution that 
is not defensible on any level; no one can dispute 
this statement. 



