Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/TERM_LOGIC-GLUE.PDF
Term: “Logic glue”
Definition: Logic glue represents the relationship between two sentences. This relationship is implied, 
rather than stated with transitional words.

At its most simplistic form, logic glue is logical transitions that tie one sentence to the next. In order to link 
words and sentences together through multiple sentences, writers use transition words:

for example 
to illustrate 
next	
	
as	a	result	

 
 
	
	

furthermore 
moreover 
later	
even	though	

	

 
 
	
	

in addition 
 
likewise 
 
finally	 	
	
for	this	reason		

therefore
consequently
that	is
first,	second,	etc

Even without transitions, relationships exist between sentences. The following is a list of the types of 
logical relationships that occur between sentences. Although these words, or synonyms for them, do not 
always appear between sentences, the reader recognizes that they represent the logical relationship  
between them.

While these transition words may not be used in the sentences, the relationship is implied:

…an alternative for what is state in the earlier sentence

and    ………  …continues the same idea with new facts
but / yet ……  …a change in the idea of the previous sentence
or    ……… 
that	is				………	 …a	definition	or	restatement	of	the	idea	in	the	earlier	sentence
for example .  …an illustration of the idea in the earlier sentence
therefore ……  …a conclusion or effect based on the earlier sentence
for    ………  …a reason or cause for what is state in the earlier sentence

Example

Actual Sentence: 

Evidence: “To protect a great people, however, 
from making all that they can of every part of 
their own produce, or from employing their stock 
and their industry in the way that they judge to 
be most advantageous to themselves is a manifest 
violation of the most sacred right of mankind” (6).

This deprivation of prosperity denied the 
Americans of an inalienable right: liberty.

Word Glue: 

n/a

Logical relationship = Therefore
Therefore relationship is a conclusion arrived at 
based on the statement in the previous sentence.
The writer comes to the conclusion that Britain’s 
deprivation of “produce” denies the Americans 
of their rights by combining the previous two 
sentences together.

- 1 -

In Locke’s theory, if a government attempts to take 
“absolute power” (Locke) over a people, they are 
setting themselves up to be attacked.

Transitions: (implied) if… then…
Logical relationship = and
The student moves the denial of an inalienable right 
to the idea that Locke believes this to be cause for 
upheaval.

This was the case with Britain and the Americans.

Britain overstepped the power that the colonists 
had given to them, and basically asked for all of 
the disobedience that followed in the colonies.

Logical relationship = That is
That is is a definition, restatement of con-
clusion of the idea in the earlier sentence.
This is close to a therefore relationship but 
not quite – the author is tying the logical 
together from the previous two sentences 
(denial of rights + Locke says overthrow = 
this is what happened) to create a narrative 
of their argument instead of arriving at a 
“therefore” conclusion.

Logical relationship = Therefore

- 2 -



