Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/TERM_CLARIFIED-IN-SCOPE.PDF
Term: “Clarified in Scope”
Definition: If an assertion is “clarified in scope,” then the statement limits the scope of the argument by 
providing context. Typically, this means that the assertion answers one or more of these questions: how, 
when, why, in what circumstances. This might also include defining unclear terms or being more specific.

An assertion that is clarified in scope is almost always defensible. However, assertions that are not 
defensible are typically not clarified in scope. Thus, one concrete way to make assertions defensible is to 
teach students how to write an assertion that is clarified in scope.

One way to add it

Ø  Semi-colon + introductory phrase / transition
Ø  A second sentence in the assertion
Ø  Transition words like: indeed, specifically, this is to say that, in other words…

Exemplar:  Shakespeare’s use of light and dark imagery illustrates Romeo’s love life; indeed, the light, 
derived from Juliet, pieces the darkness of his broken heart and reignites his passion.
Another way to add it

(noun)

(active verb)

 by / through 
 led to the bourgeois’ downfall because 

o   Sentence template:
o   The bourgeois 
this 
o   Exemplar: Market demands sparked the development of the bourgeois’ Modern Industry; this 
expansion and greed led to the bourgeois’ downfall because they did not consider the unintended 
consequences of their choices.

(everything else)

(everything else)

;  

 .

Example

Non-Example

“First off, a determined leader is needed to run a 
functional revolution.” 

Analysis: This assertion does not explain WHY 
this is true. Thus, since it is not clarified in scope it 
is also not defensible.

“Market demands ignited the unchecked 
development of the bourgeois’ Modern Industry; 
this unbridled expansion and greed led to the 
bourgeois’’ destruction because they did not 
consider the unintended consequences of their 
choices.”

“The bourgeoisie provided the proletariats with the 
tools and weapons needed to fight their enemies, 
the absolute monarchy, the landowners, and 
the non-industrial bourgeoisie; the knowledge 
and power given to the proletariats led to the 
bourgeoisie downfall because they used it to revolt 
against the bourgeoisie.”
(continued)

- 1 -

Assertion: “The use of the N word is harmful to 
society.” 
Clarification: “In other words, the continual use of 
the “N” word or any of its derivations will have a 
negative impact on future generations by allowing 
it to continually belittle the African American 
people and their ancestry who were attacked and 
discriminated against through that word.”above 
and beyond and incorporating “new” ideas into 
their paper.

- 2 -



