Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/TERM_CORE-COMPONENTS-OF-A-BODY-PARAGRAPH.PDF
Term: “Core components of a body paragraph”
Definition: There are a few core components of a body paragraph:

•	

•	

First of all, we assume that two evidence chunks exist in each body paragraph. This is not a hard 
and fast rule in the upper grades as organizational structure and argument may allow for different 
types of body paragraphs, but is a common expectation in grades 9 and 10.
The body paragraph includes:
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Assertion
Context
Evidence
Interpretation
Context
Evidence
Interpretation
Transition / Closing

Example

Non-Example

“First off, a determined leader is needed to run a 
functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired 
the people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t 
for him and his devotion to the cause, the people 
would not have succeeded in creating the nation 
they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is 
possible to obtain this knowledge is the sphere of 
relationships of all classes and strata to the state 
and the government, the sphere of interrelations 
between all classes made possible by professional 
revolutionaries.”(V.I. Lenin) Lenin expresses the 
idea that in order to create and run a revolution, 
you need a professional and experienced leader 
to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the 
attempt would be futile.”

Analysis: This paragraph meets the criteria for a 
1 in organization because “most core components” 
are present. However, it cannot score a 2 because 
it is missing an entire evidence chunk (context, 
evidence, interpretation).

“Initially, Nick admires Gatsby’s ambition and 
desire to go after what he wants. In the beginning 
of the book, Nick does not have any knowledge 
of who his neighbor is. One night, when Nick 
comes home, he sees Gatsby standing on the top 
of his house staring towards a green light. Nick 
states, “He stretched out his arms toward the dark 
water in a curious way, and, far as I was from 
him, I could have sworn he was trembling” (20). 
Nick can see that there is something that Gatsby 
wants. He says Gatsby’s arms are “stretched out”, 
indicating that Gatsby is reaching for something. 
Gatsby is not reaching for something literally 
in this passage, but the green light represents 
Gatsby desires. Nick also sees Gatsby’s ambition 
when he states the he could have “sworn he was 
trembling.” Not only does Nick see that Gatsby’s 
arms are stretched out, but that Gatsby is shaking 
as well. Gatsby wants what the light represents 
so bad that he starts to shake as if it is something 
he is addicted to. Also, Nick admires Gatsby’s 
ambition even more due to the evidence Nick sees 
of Gatsby at a young age. When Gatsby dies at 
the end of the novel, Nick gets the chance to meet 
(continued)

- 1 -

Gatsby’s father who shows Nick a list that Gatsby 
had as a young boy. It reads:

Rise from bed …….…………….6.00 A.M.
Dumbbell exercise and wall-
scaling………………...………….6.15-6.30“
Study electricity, etc…………….7.15-8.15 “
Work……………………….8.30-4.30 P.M.
Baseball and sports………...…...4.30-5.00 “
Practice elocution, poise and how to  
attain it…..........…………………5.00-6.00 “
Study needed inventions…7.00-9.00 (173).

Gatsby’s schedule shows his determination, even 
as a young boy. Nothing can stop him. The fact 
that he has his life planned down to the hours of 
the day shows the determination that Gatsby has 
to succeed in life. Nick has admiration for Gatsby 
because he is not like everybody else. Gatsby  
is different.”

- 2 -



