Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/TERM_KEY-NUANCES.PDF
Term: “Key nuances”
Definition: “Key nuances” are complications within the text/content that influence it in one way or another. 
For example, if an author is arguing that King X came into power primarily because of his married to 
Queen Y but chooses to oversimplify his paper by failing to mention Queen Y’s previous engagement to 
King A, his enemy, then the author is not introducing “key nuances” into his or her argument.

Example

Non-Example

“First off, a determined leader is needed to run a 
functional revolution. In Russia, Lenin inspired 
the people to ge together and revolt. If it wasn’t 
for him and his devotion to the cause, the people 
would not have succeeded in creating the nation 
they wanted. “The sphere from which alone it is 
possible to obtain this knowledge is the sphere of 
relationships of all classes and strata to the state 
and the government, the sphere of interrelations 
between all classes made possible by professional 
revolutionaries.”(V.I. Lenin) Lenin expresses the 
idea that in order to create and run a revolution, 
you need a professional and experienced leader 
to lead the group. Unfortunately, without one, the 
attempt would be futile.”

“Since rules are not enforced in the state of nature, 
Locke believes that humans are unstable and 
unsafe; furthermore, the state of nature is the 
reason for fear because of its lack of a higher 
authority, which causes people to break the law 
of nature. Some people suggest that the state of 
nature has no flaws. In addition, these people 
wonder, “If man, in the state of nature, be so free, 
as has been said; if he be absolute lord of his own 
person and possessions, equal to the greatest and 
subject to nobody, why will he part with this 
freedom? Why will he give up this empire and 
subject himself to the dominion and control of 
any other power?” (Locke Sec. 123). In the state 
of nature, humans possess complete freedom and 
control; therefore, they are not subject to anyone 
else. Thus, people wonder why humans would 
relinquish this great opportunity and privilege 
just to then be put under a government. There 
are, however, negative outcomes in the state of 
nature. At some point the state of nature gets 
out of controlled and too dangerous for people 
to live in. According to Locke, “…the enjoyment 
of the property he has in this state is very unsafe, 
very unsecure. This makes him willing to quit a 
condition which, however free, is full of fears and 
continual danger: and it is not without reason that 
he seeks out, and is willing to join society with 
others…” (Locke Sec.123). The state of nature 
contains the ability to become “unsafe” and 
dangerous, and as a result man gets a desire to 
surrender the way he lives so he can join a society. 
(continued)

- 1 -

Since man has the freedom of choice, they decide 
to not obey the laws of nature, which leads people 
to make bad decision and create violence. Hence, 
the state of nature is something that will eventually 
get out of control to the point where it will need to 
be destroyed. In return for its destruction man can 
come a join a “society” and work together to make a 
stable government and civilization.”

Analysis: This paragraph effectively weaves the 
contradiction of freedom and danger. This “key 
nuance” is well addresses.

- 2 -



