Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/careers/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMI5cuykv6G6gIVCjiGCh1F1wvyEAAYASAAEgJBDvD_BwE
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2020/10/TR-EXTERNAL-REFERRAL-FLYER.PDF
SUBMIT A REFERRAL 
FOR ANY OF OUR 
37 SCHOOLS AND BE 
ELIGIBLE FOR $250

Thank you for your 
interest in our 
referral program!

With 37 schools, we’re always 
looking for amazing educators, 
leaders, and operations teammates 
who are dedicated to helping us 
close the opportunity gap. We know 
that our scholars deserve the best, 
and we’re thrilled that you would 
share your networks, and encourage 
them to join our Achievement First 
Team & Family.

Please read carefully to ensure 
your referral submission meets all 
requirements to be bonus eligible.
Note: Your referral does not qualify 
for a bonus if your referral has 
started an application before you 
submit the official referral form. 
There will be no exceptions.

External Referral Program
Rules and Reward
20-21 Academic Year
Referral Period resets on June 26th, 2021

OVERVIEW

A referral is any individual who you think 
would be a great fit for a role at Achievement 
First. If your referral is hired, you will be 
eligible for $250.

F.A.Q

A referral is any individual who you think 
would be a great fit for a role at Achievement 
First. If your referral is hired, you will be 
eligible for $250.

Who can I refer?
•  Teachers
•  Associate Teachers
•  Deans
•  Principals
•  Paraprofessionals

•  Behavior Specialist
•  School Operations
•  Office Coordinators
•  Assistants

Referral bonuses will not be awarded for 
candidates hired for our Network Offices. 
People who have worked for AF in any 
capacity prior to being referred do not 
qualify as referrals. Should you refer a 
former AF staff member that is hired, you will 
not be eligible for the bonus.

(See next page for more details)

External Referral Program
Rules and Reward
20-21 Academic Year
Referral Period resets on June 26th, 2021

When do I receive my referral bonus?
•  Bonuses for referrals hired for a position in the 2021-22 school year will be paid 
out September 2021 if your referral is still an employee with Achievement First on 
September 1, 2021.

•  Alternatively, if your referral is hired for a position in the 2020-21 school year, 

bonuses will be paid out four times a year (once a quarter), if your referral is still an 
employee with Achievement First 1 month after their start date.

How will I receive my referral bonus?
•  A check will be mailed to the address you provide to us.

PROGRAM FYI’S

•  You must be the first person to refer the candidate to Team Recruit in a given school 

year in order to be eligible for a bonus.

o   
 
 
o  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
•  A referral is someone who has not applied or interviewed with Achievement First   

Should two people refer the same person in the current school year, 
the bonus will be awarded to the first person to submit the 
referral form.
Should two people refer the same person but in different school years,    
the bonus will be awarded to the person that referred in the current  
school year.

in the current school year (June 12th, 2020 - current).

Please note that Team Recruit will only pay out a referral bonus when the rules have been followed.



