Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/WORDCHOICE06.PDF
WORd ChOICE 6

Analysis: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

ABSTRACT/SUmmARY:
While there are many spots where better word choice could be employed, this is a college-level paper that 
has improvements that mainly live off of the high end of the rubric. The level of both content-specific and 
academic  language present goes above and beyond an end-of-12th-grade goal. Therefore, both for the 
sheer volume and overwhelmingly effective use of the words, this paper scores a 6.

CRITERIA 1 And 2: dICTIOn And RAnGE
The paper has many examples of precise and powerful action verbs (bolded), academic vocabulary 
(italicized) and content-specific vocabulary (underlined):

 In “Ozamandias,” Shelley uses strong symmetry in both rhymes and structure to imply that the 
infinite expanse of space in time represents the supreme force of order, which mankind can never hope 
to transcend through power or achievements. For to Shelley, the order of immortality must always 
crush – or slowly erode - the chaos of mortality. Yeats presents an entirely different perspective: “The 
Second Coming” deals not in broad, abstract terms, but defines the social and political turmoil in 
1918 as a struggle between the forces of chaos (left wing radicals) and forces of order (conservatives). 
And instead of symmetry, Yeats uses horizontal asymmetry and a broken rhyme and structure to 
portray the poet’s disgust and fear at the chaotic world around him, as well as his fear and misgivings 
for the times he sees ahead.

However, word choice is not always flawless.  In particular, the beginning of the sixth paragraph has a 
vague transition: “In contrast, not only is the meaning of Yeats’ “The Second Coming” rather different, but 
the methods through which he communicates that message are also very different.”
The range of academic and content-specific  vocabulary in this paper is a true exemplary model. The writer 
sometimes struggles with repeating words and varying his less-sophisticated vocabulary, but the variance 
of the high-level vocabulary overcomes this  issue.

- 1 -

Essay: Lit - Yeats.Order of Chaos

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -

- 5 -

- 6 -

- 7 -

- 8 -

- 9 -

- 10 -

- 11 -

- 12 -



