Base URL: achievementfirst.org
Parent URL: https://www.achievementfirst.org/rubric-element/high-school/
File URL: HTTPS://ACHIEVEMENTFIRST.ORG/WP-CONTENT/UPLOADS/2018/05/WORDCHOICE03B.PDF
Word CHoiCe 3 (Set 2)

Analysis: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

SummAry/ABSTrACT:
A lack of active verbs keeps this paper from scoring a 4. Attempts are made, but the majority of verbs are 
repetitive and flat. The writer generally attempts to use academic and sophisticated vocabulary, but these 
are not a strength or particularly varied. The heavy reliance on “to be” and “to have” verbs, along with a 
lack of sophisticated language, keep this paper from a 4.
[Note that while this paper reads closely with “Always Here,” the other standard bearer, the use of 
sophisticated/academic language is higher in this paper; active verbs are also slightly higher in number.]

CriTerion 1 And 2: diCTion And rAnge
The writer attempts to use sophisticated vocabulary and content-specific language. Some examples:

• 
• 

• 

soul of every classic tragic play is suffering and a tragic hero.”

“At the 
“But Haemon’s death was not caused by his own mistakes but those of his father, which 
him from being the tragic hero.”
“This act angers his son which causes Haemon to go to 
that while some words are striking, this sentence is still problematic because it is not specific.

dire measures to avenge his father.” à Note 

excludes 

Academic and task-specific language (tragic hero, fate) is used correctly, but the language could be much 
more varied. What keeps this paper from a 3 is both a consistent use of active verbs and There are many 
sentences that overuse the verb “to be” “to have” and continuous tense verbs “-ing”).   In addition, the 
writer relies heavily on the following verbs: to show, to cause, to suffer, to go, to control, to realize, etc. 
These are not sophisticated verbs, and the paper cycles through them ad nauseum.

 

- 1 -

essay: Lit - Antigone.True Tragic Hero

- 2 -

- 3 -

- 4 -



