Home
About SSIS
Parent Info
Staff
Elementary
Middle
Sports
More
Suncoast School
for 
Innovative Studies
Elementary Capacity
240 Students 
VPK-5th Grade  
Middle School Capacity
170 Students 
Grades 6-8
School Grade "D"
RE-REGISTER FOR 2017-2018
RE-REGISTER EN ESPANOL
NEW STUDENT REGISTRATION
REGISTRO DE ESTUDIANTES NUEVOS 
Bus Routes
SSIS
Middle School Campus
4311 Wilkinson Road
Sarasota, FL 34233
941-342-0963
Elementary Campus
845 South School Avenue
Sarasota, FL 34237
941-953-4433
© 2017 by Kevin Alvey
​
​
A native of Southmont North Carolina, Stephen Evans was born to Ida May and Harold Evans, the second oldest of four children. As a child he dreamed of playing in the National Football league. With such a goal in mind Stephen set his sight on Ferrum Junior College prior to obtaining a scholarship to Marshall University.  After a successful sports and academic career he was picked up by the Philadelphia Stars of the USFL which lead to the fulfillment of his dream, the NFL.  Due to unforeseen injuries his professional sports career was short lived thus he turned to his backup plan, education. 
During his sports career, Stephen always found himself constantly visiting various schools talking with children, reading stories in the classroom or spending big bucks on ice cream for all of the children.  Little did he know at the time, that his true calling was in Education and leadership as an “Agent of Change”, a real “Mover and Shaker”. Within a few years Stephen began painting the canvass of American Education implementing innovative, successful academic and behavioral strategies for general education and special needs children. He was so intrigued with learning behaviors that he earned his Master’s Degree in Guidance and Counseling during the early 1990’s. He continued serving as a teacher, Special Needs Counselor /Assistant Principal at a middle school in North Carolina for seven years before moving to Michigan with his now wife of more than 20 years (Terri Evans) and becoming a licensed counselor, general education, multi-age, multi-abilities / special needs instructor, professional speaker and workshop facilitator.  
It was during the mid-1990’s, while serving in Michigan, that Stephen was introduced to the charter School movement.  He sharpened his skill upon taking the position as Executive Director of a failing High School on the East side of Detroit. The high school was described as a “low academically performing, gang and drug infested charter school recommended to be closed”.  Simply stated, the school was transformed and Stephen’s accomplished during this time could only be stated as unbelievable.  In 2000, he was again recruited to help an ailing charter program recover in Pontiac, which was spiraling out of control, facing a half million dollar deficit, facilities concerns and an enrollment of 75 students and declining.  Within seven years he and the staff flourished by leaps and bounds, dissolving the deficit, creating a positive balanced, profitable budget and eventually becoming a K-12 Charter School program with over 1200 students, the largest charter school per capita in Michigan in 2007, according to USA Today.  By any measure, this is a quite impressive accomplishment.  Too many, Stephen is known as the “fixer”. To date Stephen has been instrumental in four school reconstruction efforts.  One of which is here in Sarasota county Suncoast School for Innovative Studies.  Due to his accomplishments Stephen found himself as one of the key note speakers for the annual international Oxford University Roundtable Conference held in Oxford England.  His presentation focused on the socio-economically disadvantaged and education.  He is the only Oxford University presented that was requested to attend as a presenter for three consecutive years. 
Stephen says that his 20 plus -year career has encompassed five states and has been a very exciting, enriching, rewarding journey. From the Hills of West Virginia to the inner-city culture of Detroit, Michigan, he has enjoyed educating children, teens and adults from all walks of life and various socioeconomic settings; wealthy, impoverished in rural, suburban and urban environments. He has been an instructor at the elementary, middle school, high school and university.  He holds teacher certifications in five different states.  He awards and recognitions are numerous.
He continues to uplift and aspire many through motivational speaking. He has pretty much spoken to just about every type of audience there is from; schools to universities, clubs and organizations, community programs, businesses, prisons, churches, rally’s etc…  anyone that has heard him speak would understand why he has been so successful. 
In January of 2009, Stephen rolled up his sleeves and began his next chapter, Suncoast School of Innovative Studies as the New Executive Director. Upon arriving in Sarasota, the program faced similar challenge, poor administrative leadership and financial, facilities, academics and student behavioral concerns.  With only 160 students, it had been recommended, due to ongoing issues, that the school be discontinued.
 Seven years later, the school earned it first of three “A” academic ratings, alleviated the budgetary concerns, opened two new campus, increasing the student enrollment to over 420.   In 2013, the school was granted its first ever 10 year charter renewal by the Sarasota County District.  Without question, these accomplishments can only be described as remarkable.  Although, Stephen has an impressive list of honors and credentials, he says his greatest accomplishment is his family.  If you know, then you’ll know also, he’s a man of faith, strong conviction and contributes his success to God.  He also and most importantly credits the schools success to an outstanding group of SSIS educators, a very supportive governing board and Sarasota County School District for their ongoing support of Charter Schools.
Stephen T. Evans