Home
About Us
Apply to WAIS
Calendars & Resources
Daily Schedule
Dress Code
Grading Periods
Guthrie Schedule
Lunch Menu
Nutrition Services
Testing Calendars
Stay Connected
WAIS & SBISD Policies
District Handbook
English
Spanish
WAIS Supplement
Assessment Policy
Academic Honesty Policy
Honesty, Writing & Research
Homework/Late Work Policy
IB MYP Regulations
Language Policy
Special Needs Policy
Campus Plans & Reports - Middle School
Campus Plans & Reports - High School
Campus Informational Sheet 
File A "Lost or Stolen" Report 
IB Programme
IB Overview
IB Learner Profile
Middle Years Programme
Arts
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Individuals & Societies
Mathematics
Physical & Health Education
Sciences
Design
Personal Project
Career-related Programme
IB CP Language Development
IB CP Reflective Project
Diploma Programme
CAS
Students
Activities
List of Clubs 2016-17
Academic Clubs
NJHS
Model United Nations
Interact
Student Council
Fine Arts
WAIS Theatre
Advanced Choir
Sports Clubs
Tennis Club
Grappling Club
Boys Lacrosse
Ultimate Club
After-School Clubs
Art Crew
Odyssey of the Mind
Robotics Club
Young Life
Westchester Drama Club
Wais Knitting Club
The League of Champions
Contests and Competitions
Program of Studies - High School
Program of Studies - Middle School
Useful Links
Family Access
Library Resources
myDigital Counselor
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Miacis - WAIS Yearbook
FACULTY
Leadership
Admissions
Lottery 
Announcements
Report cards/ Grading
Transcripts
Withdrawal 
Graduation
Verification of Enrollment (TDL Permits & Licenses)
Rank Info
Administrators
Valerie Muniz- Director
Alexia Greiner- Assistant Director
Pamela Redd- Assistant Director
Counselors
Beverly Martin
Tricia Miller
Steven Schlabach
Karren Sims
Anonymous Reporting
Coordinators
Cheryl Wegscheid- IB MYP
Sara Sebesta-Camano- IBCC
Valerie Harelson- IB DP
Intervention Specialist
Jeremy Reese
Attendance- Brenda Avalos
Library- Kelly Kiehnhoff
Nurse- Charlene Wilson
Grade Levels
6th Grade
7th Grade
8th Grade
9th Grade
Departments
Arts
Design (& Tech)
Individuals & Societies
Language & Literature
Language Acquisition
Mathematics
Physical & Health
Sciences
How do I find My Teachers?
Parents
Information for Incoming Students
Summer Reading & Math Packets
Summer Programs
Counselors Corner
Family Access
Guides for Parents
Digital Citizenship
English
Spanish (Convivencia Digital)
IB MYP Regulations
Student Success
English
Spanish
Naviance
About Family Connection
Family Connection for MS
Family Connection for HS
Teen Dating Violence Prevention
WAIS PTA
Useful Links
Turnitin.com
Parents.com
ParentSmart.com
FAQ
Login
Add Content...
You are here: 
Home
 > 
About Us
Learn About WAIS:
Apply to WAIS
Campus Brochure
Campus Profile Sheet
Campus Rating
Location
WAIS & the IB Programme
WAIS in the News
It's About Working Together                        
In SBISD, two-way dialogue, information sharing and community input are part of our DNA. We're proud of a long and very successful history of strong community involvement.
Local residents provide valuable, ongoing guidance and support to the district and reflect the Board of Trustees' and district leadership's interest in tapping into local expertise and resources.
A Rigorous Course of Studies                        
    International Studies
                             & Responsible Citizenship
The IB continuum of international education is
                        unique because of its academic and personal
                        rigour, challenging students to excel in their
                        studies and in their personal growth.
- ibo.org
WAIS is an IB Continuum School, and nearly all students here are part of it. Students in 6th-10th grade are part of the Middle Years Programme. In 11th and 12th grade, students may choose to participate in the Diploma Programme, Career-related Programme, or participate in courses for an IB Certificate without enrolling in the full Diploma or Career-related Programmes.
The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IB DP) is a comprehensive program to prepare students for university and life through a rigorous course of studies.
The International Baccalaureate Career-related Programme (IB CP) allows students to continue career-related studies at WAIS or through Guthrie while still being part of the rigorous curriculum IB offers.
The International Baccalaureate Middle Years Programme (IB MYP) is designed to encourage balanced learners that think critically and reflectively in a variety of academics that connect with real world issues and topics.
The variety of assessment methods used value both the content and the process of academic learning and reflection of that learning. Different learning styles and cultural patterns are taken into account.
WAIS is an IB Continuum School, providing at least 3 of the 4 IB programs. WAIS became an officially authorized world school by the IB Organization and began offering the IB Diploma Programme during the 2005-2006 school year. WAIS was authorized in the IB Middle Years Programme in October of 2013. WAIS was authorized to offer the IB Career-related Certificate in June of 2014, an option incorporating career-related studies into the highly regarded quality of an IB education.
WAIS Mission Statement
The mission of Westchester Academy for International Studies is to provide a challenging and varied curriculum in which all students can succeed. The curriculum will develop an international awareness (consciousness), including a focus on international relations and international problem solving, to create a love of learning and emphasize good citizenship.
                        WAIS is an IB Continuum School
District Snapshot
The Memorial/Spring Branch area and its public school district form a diverse community of about 188,000 residents, most of whom live in west Houston or one of several incorporated villages.
SBISD encompasses 44 square miles, and its families represent the nation's economic spectrum from privilege to poverty. Many residents have lived in Spring Branch all their lives, while others are new to the area.
SBISD is nationally known for its educational excellence. It continues to attract families - including families of returning sons and daughters who grew up here - who rank quality of education as a top priority. Year after year, our college-readiness indicators exceed regional, state and national averages.
Indicators of Success                        
SBISD schools are committed to the highest standards of excellence. This includes, but not limited to, standardized testing such as the TAKS & STAAR. On TAKS, WAIS achieves its highest recognition for its schools, the TAKS Commended Performance recognition and the Exemplary rating issued by the Texas Education Agency. WAIS became a National Blue Ribbon School in 2011 due to high performance and nearly non-existent performance gaps across student demographics.
Home
 | 
Students
 | 
FAQ
 | 
Terms Of Use
 | 
Privacy Statement