About Tapestry
History
Board of Trustees
Our School Model
NYS Charter School
Expeditionary Learning School
The Arts and Arts Integration
Dance
Music
Visual Arts
Theatre
Professional Development School
What is a Charter School?
Partnerships
Contact Us
Employment
Academic & Social Programs
K-5 Elementary
K-5 Elementary Program
K-8 Events Calendar
K-8 Faculty & Staff
5/6 Expedition, Fall 2013
K-5 Elementary Library
6-8 Middle School
9-12 High School
High School Program
Clubs & Organizations
Intensives
College Preparation
Honors Extension Program
High School Events Calendar
High School Faculty & Staff
High School Library
Guidance & Support Structures
Special Education
Response to Intervention
Crew & Team Building
Our Code of Character
Student-Led Conferences & Portfolios
Guidance
Health Office
Student Commons
Library
News & Events
Current Events
Upcoming Events
Past Events
Tapestry in the News
Newsletter
Tapestry Expansion Updates
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Athletics
Select sport below for schedule:
Track & Field
Girls Basketball
Boys Basketball
Squash
Soccer
Softball
Volleyball
Middle School Club Sports
Forms & Downloads
Support Tapestry
Annual Giving
Sarah Thorp Acton Scholarship Fund
Nick Padilla International Travel Scholarship
Class Fundraisers
Tapestry Merchandise
Advocacy
Alumni
Volunteering
For Families
Powerschool Parent Portal
K-8 Events Calendar
High School Events Calendar
Application Process
Breakfast & Lunch
Teacher & Staff Directory
Administrators
High School
K-8
Staff
Handbooks, Calendars & Other Important Information
K-8 Family Handbook
High School Family Handbook
Summer Reading & Supply Lists
Principal’s Advisory Group (PAG)
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
Get Involved
Tapestry Community Association (TCA)
The TCA is a voluntary parent/family organization of Tapestry Charter School that was created to enhance and enrich the educational and social development of the students, faculty and families. It raises funds for the school and provides social events for the Tapestry community. The TCA meets monthly and hosts speakers on topics that are relevant for Tapestry families. All Tapestry parents/guardians, teachers, administrators and staff are members of the TCA.
TCA Fundraising:  Charter schools receive a per-pupil allocation from the state. This per-pupil allocation varies from year to year, but in the City of Buffalo, in general, has been routinely equivalent to approximately 40% of the total per pupil expenditure of a Buffalo public school student. In order to make up for this funding discrepancy, charter schools must privately fundraise. The TCA works hard to prevent fund raising fatigue among families by planning just a few high earning (and community building) fundraisers each year.
Families will not be bombarded with a never-ending series of sales requests, but the Community Association does periodically hold fundraising activities that are an important source of funds for the school. 
The TCA's contributions dramatically improves the quality of our program at Tapestry and is used to fund a variety of enrichment activities vital to our curriculum (field work, classroom equipment, clubs, classroom initiatives such as poetry books and the yearbook, after school sports, etc.) All money raised by the TCA benefits the children at the school directly.
TCA Community-building: In addition to fundraising activities, the TCA holds other activities to draw its families and the broader community into the life of the school (end of summer picnic, the spaghetti dinner, the camping trip, and informational meetings).
TCA Coordination of Family Volunteers: The TCA Volunteer Coordinators organize the many parent/family volunteer opportunities such as greeting children as they arrive at school, calling other parents with important information and volunteering for various events. Family involvement is essential to the success of our school.
Sharing your time and talents is an incredibly rewarding way to help our children, our school and our community. Volunteering gives parents the feeling of ownership in our school and shared responsibility for the successful education of our children. Every parent can make time for some form of volunteering at the school. It could be during school hours or for special fund raising efforts, after school hours or on an occasional weekend, but no effort is too small, and every effort is appreciated. There are so many ways you can 
get involved
.
									Copyright © 2017 
Tapestry Charter School
									65 Great Arrow Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14216
"Expeditionary Learning... this is how kids want to learn."								                                
site by ingenious inc.
view spanish site