Toggle navigation        
Home
About Us 
About Us
Our Founders
Board
Board Minutes
Board Meeting Schedule
Family Information 
Parent/Guardian Info
Student Life
SLACS Code of Conduct
Breakfast & Lunch Program
Child Find Policy
Wellness Policy
Homeless Policy
Events
Our Team 
Staff
Staff Directory
SLA in the News
Contact
Southwest Leadership Academy
Southwest Leadership Academy C.S. featured on Good Day Philadelphia!
September 5, 2017
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School was featured on Good Day Philadelphia as a part of their “Back to School” segment. As a part of the back to school festivities, black men greeted the students in the morning and encouraged them … 
Continued
Transportation List
September 1, 2017
Dear Families,                  It has come to our attention that there have been some concerns regarding the transportation procedure for Tuesday. To assist in this process, we are posting the arrival time and … 
Continued
Southwest Leadership Academy celebrates Kwanzaa
December 13, 2016
CEO/Principal Alphonso Evans featured on CBS3
May 18, 2015
  Alphonso Evans is the CEO/Principal of the Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School in Southwest Philadelphia. SLA focuses on empowering their students to become community leaders. SLA emphasizes leadership by teaching students skills such as respect, self-awareness, self-control, responsibility, civic … 
Continued
SLACS Oratorical Featured on Action News!
March 2, 2015
  Southwest Leadership Academy Students celebrated Black History Month through the art of oratory! Students debated, recited poetry and dressed up as famous Black heroes. Click here to watch the video.
SLA Receives PCCY Grant
December 23, 2014
Fifteen Philadelphia area schools have something to be thankful for.  They are being awarded grants totaling $70,000 through Public Citizens for Children and Youth’s Picasso Project — a philanthropic reaction to budget cuts that have decimated art and music resources … 
Continued
MUFFINS WITH MOMS FEATURED ON KYW NEWS RADIO
October 24, 2014
ACTION NEWS FEATURED MUFFINS WITH MOMS
October 24, 2014
There goes that news van again! Action News was onsite to feature Muffins with Moms.
SLA Back to School Featured on NBC 10
September 8, 2014
  NBC 10 News was onsite to feature Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School scholars as they ring in a new school year!
SLA’s Family Food Mosaic Featured on Action News
April 23, 2014
  Students from SLA worked with Philly’s Magic Gardens to create a Family Food Mosaic, celebrating the importance of sharing a meal. Students raised roughly $2,000 to complete the project, and they worked over Spring Break to install the mural. … 
Continued
← Older posts
Southwest Leadership Academy
(215)729-1939
7101 Paschall Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19142
Share
Twitter
Hide Tweet (admin)
Add this ID to the plugin's Hide Specific Tweets setting: 