Toggle navigation        
Home
About Us 
About Us
Our Founders
Board
Board Minutes
Board Meeting Schedule
Family Information 
Parent/Guardian Info
Student Life
SLACS Code of Conduct
Breakfast & Lunch Program
Child Find Policy
Wellness Policy
Homeless Policy
Events
Our Team 
Staff
Staff Directory
SLA in the News
Contact
Southwest Leadership Academy
    Wellness Policy  
Wellness Policy
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School is committed to providing a school environment that promotes and protects children’s health, well-being, and ability to learn by supporting healthy eating and physical activity. Therefore, it is the policy of SLACS that:
 The school will engage students, parents, teachers, food service professionals, health professionals, and other interested community members in developing, implementing, monitoring, and reviewing district-wide nutrition and physical activity policies.
The Business Manager shall be responsible to monitor the school, programs and curriculum to ensure compliance with this policy
All students in grades K-8 will have opportunities, support, and encouragement to be physically active on a regular basis.
Foods and beverages sold or served at school will meet the nutrition recommendations of the U.S. Dietary Guidelines for   Americans.
Qualified child nutrition professionals will provide students with access to a variety of affordable, nutritious, and appealing foods that meet the health and nutrition needs of students; will accommodate the religious, ethnic, and cultural diversity of the student body in meal planning; and will provide clean, safe, and pleasant settings and adequate time for students to eat.
To the maximum extent practicable, SLACS will participate in available federal school meal programs including the School Breakfast Program and the National School Lunch Program.
Meals served through the National School Lunch and Breakfast Programs will:
be appealing and attractive to children
be served in clean and pleasant settings
meet, at a minimum, nutrition requirements established by local, state, and federal statutes and regulations
offer a variety of fruits and vegetables
serve only low-fat (1%) and fat-free milk and nutritionally-equivalent non-dairy alternatives (to be defined by USDA).
SLACS will share information about the nutritional content of meals with parents and students. Such information will be made available on monthly menus, on cafeteria menu boards, placards, or other point-of-purchase materials.
Breakfast
To ensure that all children have breakfast, either at home or at school, in order to meet their nutritional needs and enhance their ability to learn:
SLACS will, to the extent possible, operate the School Breakfast Program.
Notify parents and students of the availability of the School Breakfast Program.
Encourage parents to provide a healthy breakfast for their children through newsletter articles, take-home materials, or other means.
Free and Reduced-priced Meals
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School will make every effort to eliminate any social stigma attached to, and prevent the overt identification of, students who are eligible for free and reduced-price school meals. Toward this end, schools may utilize electronic identification and payment systems; provide meals at no charge to all children, regardless of income; promote the availability of school meals to all students; and/or use nontraditional methods for serving school meals, or classroom breakfast.
Meal Times and Scheduling
will provide students with at least 10 minutes to eat after sitting down for breakfast and 20 minutes after sitting down for lunch
should schedule meal periods at appropriate times, e.g.,lunch should be scheduled between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
should not schedule tutoring, club, or organizational meetings or activities during mealtimes, unless students may eat during such activities
Beverages
Allowed: water unflavored or flavored low-fat or fat-free fluid milk and nutritionally-equivalent nondairy beverages (to be defined by USDA);
Not allowed: soft drinks containing caloric sweeteners; sports drinks; iced teas; fruit-based drinks that contain less than 50% real fruit juice or that contain additional caloric sweeteners; beverages containing caffeine, excluding low-fat or fat-free chocolate milk (which contain trivial amounts of caffeine).
Foods
A choice of at least two fruits and/or non-fried vegetables will be offered for sale at any location on the school site where foods are sold. Such items could include, but are not limited to, fresh fruits and vegetables; cooked, dried, or canned fruits (canned in fruit juice or light syrup); and cooked, dried, or canned vegetables (that meet the above fat and sodium guidelines).
Competitive foods available to students in school outside of school meal programs shall comply with established federal nutrition standards (known as Smart Snacks in School ) and the Nutrition Standards for Competitive Foods in Pennsylvania Schools, as applicable.
Nutrition Education and Promotion
SLACS aims to teach, encourage, and support healthy eating by students. SLACS will provide nutrition education and engage in nutrition promotion that:
is offered at each grade level as part of a sequential,comprehensive, standards-based program designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills necessary to promote and protect their health;
is part of not only health education classes, but also classroom instruction in subjects such as math, science, language arts,      social sciences, and elective subjects;
promotes fruits, vegetables, whole grain products, low-fat and fat-free dairy products, healthy food preparation methods, and health-enhancing nutrition practices;
emphasizes caloric balance between food intake and energy expenditure (physical activity/exercise);
links with school meal programs, other school foods, and nutrition-related community services;
Integrating Physical Activity into the Classroom Setting 
For students to receive the nationally-recommended amount of daily physical activity and for students to fully embrace regular physical activity as a personal behavior, students need opportunities for physical activity beyond physical education class. Toward that end:
classroom health education will complement physical education by reinforcing the knowledge and self-management skills needed to maintain a physically-active lifestyle and to reduce time spent on sedentary activities, such as watching television;
opportunities for physical activity will be incorporated into other subject lessons; and
classroom teachers will provide short physical activity breaks between lessons or classes, as appropriate.
Communications with Parents. SLACS will support parents’ efforts to provide a healthy diet and daily physical activity for their children. The district/school will offer healthy eating seminars for parents and send home nutrition information. Schools should encourage parents to pack healthy lunches and snacks and to refrain from including beverages and foods that do not meet the above nutrition standards for individual foods and beverages.
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School will provide information about physical education and other school-based physical activity opportunities before, during, and after the school day; and support parents’ efforts to provide their children with opportunities to be physically active outside of school. Such supports will include sharing information about physical activity and physical education through a newsletter, or other take-home materials, special events, or physical education homework.
Staff Wellness 
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School highly values the health and well-being of every staff member and will plan and implement activities and policies that support personal efforts by staff to maintain a healthy lifestyle. SLAC will establish and maintain a staff wellness committee composed of at least one staff member, school health council member, dietitian or other health professional, recreation program representative, and employee benefits specialist. (The staff wellness committee could be a subcommittee of the school health council.) The committee should develop, promote, and oversee a multifaceted plan to promote staff health and wellness. The plan should be based on input solicited from school staff and should outline ways to encourage healthy eating, physical activity, and other elements of a healthy lifestyle among school staff. The staff wellness committee should distribute its plan to the school health council annually.
Daily Physical Education (P.E.) 
K-8. All students in grades K-8, including students with disabilities, special health-care needs, and in alternative educational settings, will receive daily physical education (or its equivalent of 150 minutes/week for elementary school students) for the entire school year. All physical education will be taught by a certified physical education teacher. Student involvement in other activities involving physical activity (e.g., interscholastic or intramural sports) will not be substituted for meeting the physical education requirement. Students will spend at least 50 percent of physical education class time participating in moderate to vigorous physical activity.
Daily Recess. All elementary school students will have at least 20 minutes a day of supervised recess, preferably outdoors, during which schools should encourage moderate to vigorous physical activity verbally and through the provision of space and equipment.
SLACS will discourage extended periods (i.e., periods of two or more hours) of inactivity. When activities, such as mandatory school-wide testing, make it necessary for students to remain indoors for long periods of time, schools should give students periodic breaks during which they are encouraged to stand and be moderately active.
After-school child care and enrichment programs will provide and encourage – verbally and through the provision of space, equipment, and activities – daily periods of moderate to vigorous physical activity for all participants.
Safe Routes to School 
SLACS will assess and, if necessary and to the extent possible, make needed improvements to make it safer and easier for students to walk and bike to school. When appropriate, the school will work together with local public works, public safety, and/or police departments in those efforts. The school district will explore the availability of federal “safe routes to school” funds, administered by the state department of transportation, to finance such improvements. The school district will encourage students to use public transportation when available and appropriate for travel to school, and will work with the local transit agency to provide transit passes for students.
School food service staff, at the school or district level, will ensure compliance with nutrition policies within school food service areas and will report on this matter to the school principal. In addition, the school district will report on the most recent USDA School Meals Initiative (SMI) review findings and any resulting changes. If SLACS has not received a SMI review from the state agency within the past five years, the district will request from the state agency that a SMI review be scheduled as soon as possible.
Policy Review 
Southwest Leadership Academy Charter School will conduct a baseline assessment of the school’s existing nutrition and physical activity environments and policies. The results of those school-by-school assessments will be compiled at the district level to identify and prioritize needs.  The Business Manager shall be responsible to monitor the school, programs and curriculum to ensure compliance with this policy.  Staff members responsible for programs related to student wellness shall report to the Business Manager the status of all programs.
Assessments will be repeated every three years to help review policy compliance, assess progress, and determine areas in need of improvement. As part of that review, SLACS will review our nutrition and physical activity policies; provision of an environment that supports healthy eating and physical activity; and nutrition and physical education policies and program elements. The district, and individual schools within the district, will, as necessary, revise the wellness policies and develop work plans to facilitate their implementation.  The Business Manager shall annually report to the Board on SLACS compliance with law and policies related to student wellness.  The report will include:
Evaluation of food services program
Review of all foods and beverages sold in schools for compliance with established nutrition guidelines
Recommendations for policy and/or program revisions
Suggestions for improvement in specific areas
Feedback received from staff, students, parents/guardians, and the Wellness Committees
SLACS shall inform and update the public, including parents/guardians, students, and others in the community, about the contents and implementation of this policy.
Southwest Leadership Academy
(215)729-1939
7101 Paschall Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19142
Share
Twitter
Hide Tweet (admin)
Add this ID to the plugin's Hide Specific Tweets setting: 