Skip to main content
Shawano School District
Facebook
Twitter
Skyward
Skyward Employee
Google
Office 365
Home
District
Schools
Families
Activities
Community Ed
About Us
About Shawano Schools
The Hawk Way
Employment
Contact Us
Departments
Administration
Building and Grounds
Business Office
Communications
Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment (CIA)
Technology Department
Pupil Service
District Staff
Website Compliance
Calendars
School Year Calendar
District Office Calendar
District Wide Calendar
Facilities Calendar
School Board
Annual Notices
Agendas
Minutes
Committee Meeting Agendas
Board Members
Board Policies / Neola
For Employees
Aesop
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
FMLA
School Messenger
Skyward Employee Access
Vitality
WEA Trust
Shawano High School
About Us
Communications
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
Student Services
Staff Directory
Automotive Program
Transcripts Request
Academic & Career Planning (ACP)
2017 Senior Class Video
Shawano Middle School
About Us
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
PTA
Staff Directory
Olga Brener Intermediate
About Us
Boys & Girls Club of Shawano
Principal Update
Dean of Students
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
PBIS
PTO
School Counselors
Staff Directory
Hillcrest Primary
About Us
Breakfast & Lunch Menu's
Winter Weather Information
Forms & Resources
Math Information
Media Center
School Counselor
PTO
Staff Directory
LEADS Primary Charter
About Us
17-18 School Supply Lists
SUMMER SCHOOL - 2017
Monthly Menu
LEADS - Intent to Enroll
Forms & Resources
Monthly Newsletter
Math Information
Media Center
School Counselor
Staff Directory
Future Families
Why Shawano?
Open Enrollment
New Student Enrollment Request
Current Families
Back to School
Skyward Family Access
Yearly Student Data Update
Online Free/Reduced Application Directions
Food Service & Menus
Breakfast & Lunch Menus
Online Free Reduced Application Directions
High School Food Court
Taher Food Service
Summer Meal Site Finder
Handbooks
Shawano High School
Shawano Middle School
Olga Brener
Hillcrest Primary
LEADS Primary Charter
Family Resource Center
Activities
Clubs
2017-2018 Club Calendar
Student Council
Forensics
Homecoming
Winter Wonderland
Club/Activity Descriptions
Arts
Band Homepage
Performing Arts Staff
Arts Calendar
General Athletics
Staff Directory
Bay Conference
Coaches Corner
Documents and Forms
NCAA Information
Sports Medicine
Strength & Conditioning
Student Athlete Survey
Booster Club
Hall of Fame
Signing Day Spring 2017
Signing Day 2016
Signing Day 2017
Summer Athletic Schedule
HS Teams
Baseball
Boys Basketball
Girls Basketball
Cheer
Cross Country
Football
Boys Golf
Girls Golf
Hockey
Pom Pon
Boys Soccer
Girls Soccer
Softball
Boys Swim
Girls Swim
Boys Tennis
Girls Tennis
Track
Volleyball
Wrestling
MS Athletics
Boys Basketball
Girls Basketball
Cheer
Cross Country
Football
Track
MS Soccer
Volleyball
Wrestling
SCMS Club/Activity Descriptions
COMMUNITY EDUCATION
SSD Activity Calendar
About
Advertise
Contact Us
Web Store
Directory of Family Resources
eNews Sign Up
Hall Walking
Links - Community
Links - Kids
Links - Wellness
Shawano Volunteering
Web Store
CLASSES
Brener Running Club Info
Current SCE Magazine
Calendar (Classes)
Classes
Class Evaluation
Registration Q&A
Register Online
Registration Form
Teach a Class!
Web Store
FACILITY USAGE
Request Facility Use
Facilities Calendar
Activities Calendar
Speaker Form
HS Commons & LGI
SSD Staff
AQUATICS
Aquatic Activities
Memberships
Water Aerobics
Lightning Policy
Pool Rentals
Pool Rules
Swimming Lessons: Youth
Red Cross Swimming Levels
Lifeguard Application
Web Store
S.T.E.P. Information
Online Application Form
Activities
Clubs
2017-2018 Club Calendar
Student Council
Forensics
Homecoming
Winter Wonderland
Club/Activity Descriptions
Arts
General Athletics
HS Teams
MS Athletics
Clubs
Shawano Community High School Activities & Clubs
2017-18 
Art Club
Art Club is an informal student-driven club open to any student interested in art. Activities are planned by the students with the intent to develop leadership skills and community involvement through art. In the past club members have made banners for community events and cards for nursing home residents. 
Advisors: Jill Hansen 
hansenj@shawanoschools.com
 Jen Achterberg 
achterj@shawanoschools.com
Bridge to Success
This student-lead freshmen transition program is designed to create a bridge between middle school and high school. Bridge to Success links incoming freshmen with an upper classman who can help: Build connections, Direct, Inspire, Mentor, and Tutor. Student Bridge Leaders attend freshman resource 1-2 times a week during 1st semester. They are responsible for reviewing weekly lesson plans with the freshmen in the resource rooms. Examples of topics include SCHS Extracurricular Activities, Learning Styles, Study Skills, Time Management, Test taking Strategies, and How to Deal with Bullying.
Advisor: Stacey Warnke 
warnkes@shawanoschools.com
Chess Club
Chess Club meets weekly after school to study and play the Game of Kings (and Queens!) Improve your knowledge of strategy (openings, middle game, and endgames) and tactics (pins, forks, and skewers). We also have refreshments (what could be better than milk and cookies?) Chess Team competes against other schools on Saturdays, once in early December, then twice a month from January through March. Players start at the junior varsity level; with experience and study, they may be able to compete for our varsity team
.
Advisor: Dave Stuewer 
stuewerd@shawanoschools.com
Class Officers
Class Officers are leadership positions available in each grade. The positions of President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer will be voted on by each class at the start of each school year. Nomination forms are available in the office. Class officers are responsible for organizing and coordinating class events.
Advisor: Charmaine Schreiber 
schreic@shawanoschools.com
Culture Club
The SCHS Culture Club promotes diversity and equality in our school and community. We welcome all students to come and join in our mission. Meetings are posted on announcements and on the door of room 2100. They are always during resource and all you need to do is show up. Some activities include homecoming events, fundraisers, cultural fairs, monthly updates on cultural history, our Cultural Thanksgiving Feast and an end of year field trip. Culture Club also encourages our students to give back to the community by ringing the Salvation Army Bells, holding food drives for the local food pantries, Toys for Tots, our school’s mitten tree and helping a family with Thanksgiving dinner just to name a few. This past summer we also helped the Mohican Veterans set up and take down for the Stockbridge-Munsee Powwow. Our main fundraiser is our “Famous Indian Taco Sales.” however, we are always open to new ideas and new activities.
Advisor: Melonie Dickie Reopelle 
reopelm@shawanoschools.com
.
Destination Imagination 
Our purpose is to inspire and equip students to become the next generation of innovators and leaders. Annually, we offer seven new standards-based Challenges in Science, Technology, Engineering, Math, Improv, Visual Arts, Service Learning, and Early Learning. Each Challenge enables student teams to learn and experience the creative process from imagination to innovation while also learning 21st Century skills for the future. Each team enters the competition at one level (elementary, middle, or secondary) depending on the grades of their team member, and has chosen to solve one of five Central Challenges.
Advisor: Joanne Edwards 
edwardsJ@shawanoschools.com
FAAR
The FAAR Club (Fighting Against Abusive Relationships) is about spreading awareness of abusive relationships. We travel to many schools and conferences discussing abusive relationships and how to seek help if you or a peer is in an abusive relationship. Our club is partners with Safe Haven.
Advisor: Kandi Krueger 
childadv@ezwebtech.com
FBLA 
Future Business Leaders of America is a national association of nearly a quarter million students interested in becoming more successful in the business world. Membership in FBLA helps you learn about business and gives you the opportunity to see the “real world” through interaction with business leaders from across the country! You will also have the opportunity to test your business skills in state and national competitions. Meetings are held on the second or third Tuesday of the month in room 1102.
Membership will provide you with:
Career preparation opportunities
Leadership development and achievement
Challenging competitions
Community service experience
Friendship and fun
Networking with peers and business professionals
Scholarships and prize opportunities
Advisor: Katie Beres, 
beresk@shawanoschools.com
FFA 
The National FFA Organization is dedicated to making a positive difference in the lives of young people by developing their potential for premier leadership, personal growth and career success through agriculture education. Meetings are held the second Monday of every month in room 1205. Student have the opportunity to participate in various leadership activities, competitive events contests, educational and recreational field trips.
Advisors: Steve Stomberg 
stombergs@shawanoschools.com
 Missy Braun 
braunm1@shawanoschools.com
Forensics
Forensics prepares students for public speaking through various categories that include prose, poetry, solo acting, group interpretation, four minute speaking, etc. There are four meets per season; the season starts in January.
Advisor: Nathan Falk 
falkn@shawanoschools.com
French Club
French club is for students who are interested in doing more cultural activities outside of the classroom. These activities include French movies nights, French board games, French foods & holiday celebrations and cultural fairs. Students participating in events can enjoy using their French language skills with others in an informal and friendly setting. We also engage in some activities with Spanish club.
Advisor: Michelle Oesterreich 
oesterm@shawanoschools.com
Math Club
Students participate in various contests involving π including: writing songs, poems, and stories, creating art and T-shirts, and competing in trivia, golf, circle drawing, door decorating, and reciting the digits in π.
Advisors: Dave Stuewer 
stuewerd@shawanoschools.com
 Emilie Pingel 
pingele@shawanoschools.com
National Honor Society
National Honor Society (NHS) is a national organization which features the top student leaders within high schools around the nation. It is built upon four pillars: Scholarship, Leadership, Service and Character. Members must meet the high standards put forth by the organization and demonstrate these four pillars on a regular basis.
Advisor: Sienna Eimmerman 
eimmers@shawanoschools.com
SADD 
Club
Originally, the mission of the SADD chapter was to help young people say "No" to drinking and driving. Today, the mission has expanded. Students have told us that positive peer pressure, role modeling and environmental strategies can prevent other destructive decisions and set a healthier, safer course for their lives. And that is why SADD has become a peer-to-peer education, prevention, and activism organization dedicated to preventing destructive decisions, particularly underage drinking, other drug use, risky and impaired driving, teen violence, and teen suicide. SADD's mission: 
To provide students with the best prevention tools possible to deal with the issues of underage drinking, other drug use, impaired driving and other destructive decisions. 
Advisor: Ellen Kann 
kanne@shawanoschools.com
SALT-(Student-Athlete Leadership Training
SALT is a leadership training course for student-athletes taught by the Varsity Head Coaches and Mrs. Schreiber covering such topics as: commitment, composure, confidence, character, managing conflict, etc. Participants must be recommended by a SCHS head coach.
Advisor: Charmaine Schreiber 
schreic@shawanoschools.com
Shawano Science Society 
This club works together to explore and promote scientific involvement. Our branches include Astronomy, Geology, Chemistry, Rocketry, Medical, Environmental, and Physics. While getting involved in both the community and the school, Science Society aims to improve the understanding of science and science careers. We do this through experiments, community service, hands-on experiences, and other activities that promote scientific learning and team-based projects.
Advisor: Angela Kowalewski
Skills USA
SkillsUSA empowers its members to become world-class workers, leaders and responsible American citizens. SkillsUSA improves the quality of America’s skilled workforce through a structured program of citizenship, leadership, employability, technical and professional skills training. SkillsUSA enhances the lives and careers of students, instructors and industry representatives as they strive to be champions at work.
The annual activities that the Shawano Skills USA chapter participates in are; Homecoming Car Smash, Chicago Car Show, Regional and State Skills Contests, and Spring Car Show. 
Advisor: Jeremy Hodkiewicz 
hodkiej@shawanoschools.com
Spanish Club
The Spanish Club is for students who wish to participate in a variety of cultural activities, as well as, Spanish speaking activities outside of the classroom. These activities include participating in cultural fairs, eating at Hispanic restaurants, celebrating cultural holidays, making Spanish and Mexican foods, learning to salsa dance, and hosting friendly competitions against the French club. We also volunteer within the community, visit nursing homes, ring bells for the Salvation Army and tutor other Spanish students.
Advisors: Stacey Kent 
kents@shawanoschools.com
 Kelly Lightner lightnk@shawanoschools.com
Student Advisory
Student Advisory serves as the voice of students at Shawano Community High School. Student participants offer their perspectives on high school issues. Student Advisory member responsibilities are as follows: work with peers and other organizations on school-based student government issues and research a wide range of solutions; advise the committee as part of its decision making process; attend monthly meeting to discuss student-school issues; and work on Student Advisory projects when needed. 
Advisor: Stuart Russ 
russs@shawanoschools
.com 
Student Council
Student Council is open to all students 9th-12th grade. Students plan events including Red Cross Blood Drives, Homecoming Week, Winter Wonderland, Teacher Appreciation, Powderbuff Volleyball Tournament and other student events. This is a great opportunity for students to grow in leadership and meet other students
Advisor: Liz Alexander 
alexande@shawanoschools.com
Tri-M
The Tri-M Music Honor Society® is a program which focuses on creating future leaders in music education and music advocacy
• Tri-M recognizes students that have gone above and beyond both academically and musically
• Tri-M also provides students leadership opportunities to make a difference in their community through music-based service projects • There are more than 1,775 chapters across 50 states and 15 countries
• Tri-M involves more than 70,000 students in grades 6-12
• Each year, student members contribute more than 750,000 service hours to their school and local communities, and raise nearly $1 million for causes they care about
The Shawano High School Chapter (#5869) of Tri-M has been in existence since 2009. The chapter averages 40 members who are invited because of their musical involvement, academic achievement, leadership, and character. The requirements are very similar to National Honor Society but all invitees must also audition on their chosen instrument or voice.
The Shawano High School Tri-M chapter requires each member to perform community service during the year including student led musical performances outside the school as well as other volunteer activities. 
Advisor: Chris Kent 
kentc@shawanoschools.com
Wings 
The Shawano Community High School Wings Club is a student driven organization dedicated to maintaining and expanding the overall quality of theatrical understanding and productions here at Shawano High. Club meetings are held the second Monday of every month in room 1125. Students have the opportunity to participate in acting exercises, learn about and assist with off-stage activities, and develop a deeper appreciation for all aspects of the theater.
Advisor: Alex Konen 
konena@shawanoschools.com
ACTIVITIES CODE
All students participating must follow the expectations set in the Activities Code. To view the expectations in the Activities Code, please go to 
http://www.shawanoschools.com/activities/documents-forms.cfm, or 
pick up a copy in the High School office.
Created with CMS4Schools
Shawano School District
218 County Road B, Shawano, WI 54166
Phone: 715 526-3194 | Fax: 715 526-6072
Email
Copyright © 2017 Shawano School District. All Rights Reserved.