Quick Links
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Search site
Like Us On FACEBOOK
Parent Portal
North Texas Collegiate Academy
Main Navigation
District
District - Our Program
District - Our History
District - Administrative Staff
District - Required Postings
District - Student Services
District - Latest News
Human Resources
Human Resources - Employment Opportunities
Human Resources - Employment Applications
Human Resources - Employee Handbook
Human Resources - Salary Schedule
Human Resources - Employee Documents
Board of Directors
Board of Directors - School Board Information
Board of Directors - Board Members and Officers
Board of Directors - Board Meeting Documents
Resources
Resources - Admission & Forms
Resources - School Calendar
Resources - Student Dress Code
Resources - Supply Lists
Resources - Transportation
Resources - Cafeteria Menus
Resources - Attendance
Resources - Student Handbook
Resources - Technology
Resources - Bullying & Cyberbullying
Resources - Community Resources
Resources - Homeless Student Information
Calendar
Schools
North Campus
South Campus
East Campus
<li><a href="/vcalendar/"><span>Calendar</span></a></li>
Top
Our Program
Sign up for the News Update.
Sub Navigation
subnav - Our Program
subnav - Our History
subnav - Administrative Staff
subnav - Administrative Staff - Bonds, Ramona
subnav - Administrative Staff - King, Kay
subnav - Administrative Staff - Morgan, Val
subnav - Administrative Staff - Neeley, Brandon
subnav - Administrative Staff - Stanley, Lisa
subnav - Administrative Staff - Tolley, Lilli
subnav - Required Postings
subnav - Required Postings - Accountability
subnav - Required Postings - Audits
subnav - Required Postings - Budgets
subnav - Required Postings - Financial Integrity Ratings
subnav - Required Postings - Financial Statements
subnav - Required Postings - Governance Reports
subnav - Required Postings - Health & Wellness
subnav - Required Postings - Non-Discriminatory Statements
subnav - Student Services
subnav - Latest News
Top
Headline:
Tagline:
Byline:
Display:
Website Navigation
As Staff Page Only
 Website Navigation         
 As Staff Page Only    
Template:
No Staff Template
Default Staff Template: Notebook_Blue
Set as Default Template
 Set as Default Template      
Help
You may have a different template design for each article you add.
By checking this box all articles will use this template design.
Close
HTML Editor:
HTML Editor:
      Your session will expire in 
0
 minutes.      
Editor:
TP Article
TP Template
TP Templates
Working...
Share via email
AddThis Sharing Buttons
Share to Print
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Pinterest
Share to More
Our Program
NTCA is a free, public charter school.  As such, we do not charge tuition or fees to attend our school!
The vision of North Texas Collegiate Academy, a TEA accredited school, is to develop a partnership with parents and the community to provide a nurturing environment in which students master college preparatory and vocational skills while cultivating their unique talents in a character-based atmosphere.  North Texas Collegiate Academy will fulfill this vision through the implementation of 4 district goals:  
(
1)  to effectively implement a challenging curriculum that exceeds state standards,  
(2)  to promote a comprehensive college and career readiness program for all students,  
(3)  to sustain a culture that promotes high expectations for character, academics, and leadership for all students and staff, and
(4)  to engage all stake holders:  family, community, and schools, in a relationship of mutual respect and trust.
Character education is a huge part of the NTCA program.  Every class, every day, in every grade level starts the school day with a character trait lesson focusing on our district character trait of the week.  Without character, academic knowledge is of little benefit.  We know that instilling values and ethics in our students, coupled with our strong academic program, equips them for life long success.  
Our character education program has 4 primary goals: 
(1) to promote and model use of respectful language, 
(2) to build relationships of acceptance and respect for diversity, 
(3) to manage student behavior, and 
(4) to encourage perseverance, consistency, and integrity in our attitudes and actions.
To view our character trait calendar, 
click here
.  
We provide an academically rigorous college-preparatory curriculum to ensure that our students are prepared for success in high school and college.  Our students are accountable for the same high-stakes assessments as any other public school in Texas.  The difference is that we do not focus on those tests.  We believe that if every day of instruction is rigorous, well-planned, and relevant, the our students will perform above the standard on state tests. We allow these tests to show how well our students have mastered the standards for each grade level and subject area.
Select Language
​
▼
North Texas Collegiate Academy4601 North I-35
Denton, TX  76207
p. 940.383.6655
f. 940.383.6677
Sign In
  © 2017 North Texas Collegiate Academy  
Accessibility
Privacy Pledge
Mobile
Back To Top
Close
Play
Previous
Next
Original text
Contribute a better translation