ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
General Overview
General Overview
St. Croix Preparatory Academy is a K-12 charter school that opened in the Stillwater area in the fall of 2004.  The school opened with grades K-7.  The projected enrollment of 120 students was surpassed by the 200 students that actually enrolled. The School has experienced tremendous growth and will serve nearly 1,200 students in grades K-12 during the 2017-2018 school year.  Located on 59 acres of land, St. Croix Preparatory Academy’s educational philosophy is based on the classical methodology of grammar, logic, and rhetoric, an educational philosophy proven to achieve outstanding academic results.  Click here to view the 
St. Croix Prep FAQ Document
.
Mission
St. Croix Preparatory Academy will develop each student’s academic potential, personal character, and leadership qualities through an academically rigorous and content rich educational program grounded in a classical tradition.
Academics
The School is based on a classical model of education. A classical model focuses on providing students with the life long educational tools to learn and think for themselves. The classical tradition is grounded in the time-tested methodology of learning called the “Trivium”, which recognizes that critical learning skills must precede critical thinking skills. The Trivium methodology is organized into the three stages of learning — grammar, logic, and rhetoric — which correspond to the general stages of a student’s cognitive development.  Click here to view the 
Classical Education White Paper
.
Character
Plato believed that children should be raised to fall in love with virtue. At St. Croix Preparatory Academy, the values of citizenship, courage, honesty, integrity, perseverance, respect, responsibility, compassion, self-control, and service will be identified, modeled and clearly conveyed. Administrators and faculty will encourage and promote these traits so that all students might practice and develop them.  Upper School students are required to document at least 10 hours annually (50 hours throughout their Upper School experience of community service in an effort to emphasize the importance of giving to their community.
Leadership
John F. Kennedy said, “Leadership and learning are indispensable to each other.” St. Croix Preparatory Academy views leadership as the ability to first think and reason, then act with integrity and responsibility. ‘Leadership’ is one of the most overused and least understood terms in our society, often conjuring up images of power, success, titles and possessions. By contrast, the founders of St. Croix Preparatory Academy view leadership as the product of education and character development. Real leadership entails knowledge, understanding and the ability to communicate–in conjunction with citizenship, courage, honesty, integrity, perseverance, respect, responsibility, compassion, self-control, and service.  Students will examine various models and styles of leadership from American and world history.  In addition, students will analyze their own unique leadership style, character attributes, and personal strengths.
Achievements
St. Croix Prep is one of Minnesota’s highest performing schools.  Since opening in 2004, the School has maintained parent satisfaction of 93%, student retention of 92%, and a faculty retention of 94%.  In addition, St. Croix Prep has attained some of the highest Minnesota Comprehensive Assessment (MCA) scores in the state.  Click here for a 
summary of other achievement data
 (e.g  MCA scores, school report cards).
About us
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finance
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
Food Services
School Board
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources