ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
Upper School Educational Travel
Educational travel opportunities are made available to St. Croix Prep students.  Educational travel destinations are based on the history, literature and art curriculum covered by the individual grades.
Grand Cayman Island 2017
Upper School students had the opportunity to earn a half semester credit in Marine Biology trip. The seven day trip involved scuba diving two to three times each day exploring marine life, coral reefs as well as a shipwreck and Stingray City.
When out of the water they attended lectures by researchers, visited a geological formation on the island and a sea turtle hatchery. In addition, the students now have a lifetime scuba certification.
If you have trouble viewing this video, 
please click here
.
Venice, Tuscany, and Rome
In the summer of 2018, SCPA Juniors and Seniors are invited to join us on an educational trip to Italy. We’ll be spending two nights in 
Venice, where we’ll travel via vaporetto (water taxi) down 
Venetian canals to see St. Mark’s Square, tour the Doge’s Palace, and see a glass-blowing demonstration. From 
Venice, we’ll travel to 
Tuscany, where we’ll spend a full day in Florence taking in the treasure of the Uffizi Museum and of course, viewing Michelangelo’s famous David statue at the Accademia. We’ll also visit Siena and medieval San Gimignano, two of 
Tuscany’s most picturesque towns, and enjoy a typical 
Tuscan lunch in the countryside. We’ll then journey to 
Rome, where we will see highlights including the Colosseum, Roman Forum, the Vatican Museums, the Sistine Chapel, and St. Peter’s Basilica.  Contact Elaine Bransford at 
ebransford@stcroixprep.org
 for more information.
SCPA Guatemala – A Service Focused Travel Opportunity
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>
If you have trouble viewing this video, 
please click here
.
Partnering with Common Hope, a non-profit based in St. Paul, St. Croix Prep students travel to Anitgua Guatemela and stay at El Proyecto, a community center that provides a variety of support for local Guatemalan families.  This support includes:  programs designed to promote literacy and family education, housing and emergency food support, as well as providing basic health needs through access to a medical and dental clinic.
Establishing a service-oriented international travel experience for Upper School students fits well with the SCPA mission.  “The students are focused on service while also expanding their global perspective” said Karen Vidlock, Social Studies teacher, chaperone and team leader.  “Students develop their leadership skills as they take on new roles with team fund-raising, lesson planning, and learning about Guatemala.  Students also reveal positive character traits as they seek a broader understanding of the world and work to serve and get to know others.”
Another aspect of service is how SCPA can make our contributions ongoing.  “We want the students to return to St. Croix Prep ready to build excitement and momentum to serve to the next group of travelers” said Karissa Crouse, English teacher, chaperone and team leader.
SCRIP for Educational Travel
St. Croix Prep students have two opportunities to take part in educational travel – Washington D.C. and Italy.  SCPA encourages all students to participate, however we realize the cost of travel may seem high to some families.  To help with the cost, half of the rebates earned when purchasing Scrip cards will be applied to a students educational travel account. For example:
In one year, if you purchased gift cards for:
Cub Foods (weekly for a family of 4) – $75/week for a year with 4% rebate = $78 ($78 to SCPA)
Kwik Trip (weekly gas fill) – $75/week for a year with 4% rebate = $78 ($78 to SCPA)
Chipotle (weekly lunch) – $10/week for a year with 9% rebate = $24 ($24 to SCPA)
Amount to your Educational Travel Account – $180
For the June 2014 Washington D. C. trip we had a family that covered the cost of the trip from rebates through the Scrip program!
Upper School
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
College Counseling
2018 Graduation Events
Transcript Request
Calendars
Activities & Events Calendar
2017-2018 Full Year Calendar
Food Services
Upper School
Attendance Line
651-395-5993
Please call by 9:00 am
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources