ParentVUE
 | 
StudentVUE
| 
FeePay
651.395.5900
Toggle navigation                        
Home
about us 
Activities & Events Calendar
Alumni
Employment Opportunities
Finances
Food Services
Friends of SCPA
General Overview
Health Services
SCPA News
School Board
admissions 
Enrollment Policy
Enrollment Application
Shared Time Services
activities
athletics
support scpa 
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Lifestyle Giving
Parent Group
Volunteer
contact us
Lower School 
Lower School General
Lower School Faculty
Lower School Curriculum
Middle School 
Middle School General
Middle School Faculty
Middle School Curriculum
Middle School Educational Travel
Upper School 
Upper School General
Upper School Faculty
Upper School Curriculum
Upper School Educational Travel
Upper School Student Organizations
2018 Graduation Events
College Counseling
Transcript Request
Volunteer Opportunities at St. Croix Prep.
St. Croix Prep was founded by parents who believe that a quality education results from a partnership between parents, students, and the school.  Our vision for academic excellence and commitment to developing the personal character and leadership potential of each student cannot be fulfilled without parental involvement. We hold ourselves accountable to the families we serve and look to them to provide their energy and talents in support of our mission and vision.  Together we will continue to develop a dynamic and nurturing school community.
All volunteers must have an approved background check before volunteering.  Click here for 
information on the background checks
.  Click here for the 
online background check application
.
There are several ways to be involved at St. Croix Prep.  These include, but are not limited to lunchroom helpers, chaperoning field trips, volunteering in a classroom, Parent Group participation, playground supervision duty, assisting in the front office, athletic event duties, and board committees.  To learn more, please contact Carrie Hamm at 
chamm@stcroixprep.org
.
HelpCounter Information
HelpCounter is at the front desk during normal business hours. You can also access the system at home to enter those volunteer hours that you may be putting in outside of business hours, update your contact information as well as your volunteer interest with HelpCounter.
To do this, please click the link below. If your e-mail address is not in the HelpCounter system, it will prompt you to search for your school. Search for St. Croix Prep. Once the school is located, input your contact information to be added to our database. Once you have been added, you will receive an email from ‘HelpCounter Volunteer Software’ which will contain a link to access your new account. Via this link you may sign up for volunteer opportunities, update your contact information, create a volunteer interest list and input/edit volunteer hours manually.
HelpCounter Home Access Link
Thank you for everything you do at St. Croix Prep.
Volunteers are critical to supporting our kids and we truly appreciate everything you do.  If you have any questions, please contact 
Susan Peterson
.
Support SCPA
SCPA Marathon
Heart of the Arts
Lions Open
Donate Now
Parent Group
LifeStyle Giving
Scrip Cards
Tommy Hilfiger
Clip-N-Save
Volunteer
HelpCounter Home Access Link
St. Croix Preparatory Academy District 4120
4260 Stagecoach Trail N., Stillwater, MN 55082
651-395-5900
651-395-5901 (fax)
School Day Hours: 9:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Home
About Us
Admissions
Activities
Athletics
Support SCPA
Contact Us
Lower School
Middle School
Upper School
Employee Resources